I left. I left. I left-left-left that wack school and that even more wack ROTC drill team because it was Friday, which to me, and basically every other person on Earth, meant it was time to party. Okay, maybe not everybody on Earth. I’m sure there was a monk somewhere on a mountain who might’ve been thinking of something else. But I wasn’t no monk. Thank God. So for me and my friends, Friday was just another word for party. Monday, Tuesday, Hump Day (because who can resist the word "hump"?), Thursday, and Party. Or as my brother, Spoony, used to say, "Poorty." And that’s all I was thinking about as I crammed into a bathroom stall after school—partying, and how I wasn’t wanting to be in that stiff-ass uniform another minute.

Thankfully, we didn’t have to wear it every day. Only on Fridays, which was what they called "uniform days." Fridays. Of all days. Whose dumb idea was that? Anyway, I’d been wearing it since that morning—first bell is at 8:50 a.m.—for drill practice, which is pretty much just a whole bunch of yelling and marching, which is always a great experience right before sitting in class with thirty other students and a teacher either on the verge of tears or yelling for some other kid to head down to the principal’s office. Fun.

Let me make something clear: I didn’t need ROTC. I didn’t want to be part of no military club. Not like it was terrible or anything. As a matter of fact, it was actually just like any other class, except it was Chief Killabrew—funniest last name ever—teaching us all about life skills and being a good person and stuff like that. Better than math, and if it wasn’t for the drill crap and the uniform, it really would’ve just been an easy A to offset some of my Cs, even though I know my pop was trying to use it as some sort of gateway into the military. Not gonna happen. I didn’t need ROTC. But I did it, and I did it good, because my dad was pretty much making me. He’s one of those dudes who feels like there’s no better opportunity for a black boy in this country than to join the army. That’s literally how he always put it. Word for word.

"Let me tell you something, son," he’d say, leaning in the doorway of my room. I’d be lying on my bed, doodling in my sketch pad, doing everything physically possible to not just stop drawing and jam the pencils into my ears. He’d continue, "Two weeks after I graduated from high school, my father came to me and said, ‘The only people who are going to live in this house are people I’m making love to.’ "

"I know, Dad," I’d moan, fully aware of what was coming next because he said it at least once a month. My father was the president of predictability, probably something he learned when he was in the army. Or a police officer. Yep, the old man went from a green uniform, which he wore only for four years—though he talks about the military like he put in twenty—to a blue uniform, which he also only wore for four years before quitting the force to work in an office doing whatever people do in offices: get paid to be bored.

"And I knew what he was trying to tell me: to get out," Dad would drone. "But I didn’t know where I was going to go or what I was going to do. I didn’t really do that well in school, and well, college just wasn’t in the cards."

"And so you joined the army, and it saved your life," I’d finish the story for him, trying to water down my voice, take some of the sting out of it.

"Don’t be smart," he’d say, pointing at me with the finger of fury. I never managed to take enough bite out of my tone. And trust me, I knew not to push it too far. I was just so tired of hearing the same thing over and over again.

"I’m not trying to be smart," I’d reply, calming him down. "I’m just saying."

"Just saying what? You don’t need discipline? You don’t need to travel the world?"

"Dad—" I’d start, but he would shut me down and barrel on.

"You don’t need a free education? You don’t need to fight for your country? Huh?"

"Dad, I—" Again, he’d cut me off.

"What is it, Rashad? You don’t wanna take after your father? Look around." His voice would lift way higher than necessary and he’d fling his arms all over the place temper-tantrum style, pointing to the walls and windows and pretty much everything else in my room. "I don’t think I’ve done that bad. You and your brother have never had a care in the world!" Then came his favorite saying; it wouldn’t have surprised me if he had it tattooed across his chest. "Listen to me. There’s no better opportunity for a black boy in this country than to join the army."

"David." My mother’s voice would come sweeping down the hallway with just enough spice in it to let the old man know that once again, he’d pushed too hard. "Leave him alone. He stays out of trouble and he’s a decent student." A decent student. I could’ve had straight As if I wasn’t always so busy sketching and doodling. Some call it a distraction. I call it dedication. But hey, decent was . . . decent.

Then my father’s face would soften, made mush by my mother’s tone. "Look, can you just try it for me, Rashad? Just in high school. That’s all I ask. I begged your brother to do it, and he needed it even more than you do. But he wouldn’t listen, and now he’s stuck working down at UPS." The way he said it was as if the lack of ROTC had a direct connection to why my older brother worked at UPS. As if only green and blue uniforms were okay, but brown ones meant failure.

"That’s a good job. The boy takes care of himself, and him and his girlfriend have their own apartment. Plus he’s got all that volunteer work he does with the boys at the rec center. So Spoony’s fine," my mother argued. She pushed my father out of the way so she could share the space in the doorway. So I could see her. "And Rashad will be too." Dad shook his head and left the room.

That exact same conversation happened at least twenty times, just like that. So when I got to high school, I just did it. I joined ROTC. Really it’s called JROTC, but nobody says the J. It stands for the Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps. I joined to get my dad off my back. To make him happy. Whatever.

The point is, it was Friday, "uniform day," and right after the final bell rang I ran to the bathroom with my duffel bag full of clothes to change out of everything green.

Springfield Central High School bathrooms were never empty. There was always somebody in there at the mirror studying whatever facial hair was finally coming in, or sitting on a sink checking their cell phone, skipping class. And after school, especially on a Friday, everybody popped in to make sure plans hadn’t been made without them knowing. The bathroom was pretty much like an extension of the locker room, where even the students like me, the ones with no athletic skill whatsoever, could come and talk about the same thing athletes talked about, without all the ass slapping—which, to me, made it an even better place to be.

"Whaddup, ’Shad?" said English Jones, making a way-too-romantic face in the mirror. Model face to the left. Model face to the right. Brush hairline with hand, then come down the face and trace the space where hopefully, one day, a mustache and beard will be. That’s how you do it. Mirror-Looking 101, and English was a master at it. English was pretty much a master at everything. He was the stereotypical green-eyed pretty boy with parents who spoiled him, so he had fly clothes and tattoos. Plus his name—his real name—was English, so he pretty much had his pick when it came to the girls. It was like he was born to be the man. Like his parents planned it that way. But, unstereotypically, he wasn’t cocky about it like you would think, which of course made the ladies and the teachers and the principal and the parents and even the basketball coach even more crazy about him. That’s right, English was also on the basketball team. The captain. The best player. Because why the hell wouldn’t he be?

"What’s good, E?" I said, giving him the chin-up nod while pushing my way into a stall. English and I have been close since we were kids, even though he was a year older than me. We were two pieces of a three-piece meal. Shannon Pushcart was the third wing, and the fries—the extra-salty add-on—was Carlos Greene. Carlos and Shannon were also in the bathroom, both leaning into the urinals but looking back at me, which, by the way, is a weird thing to do. Don’t ever look at someone else while you’re taking a piss. Doesn’t matter how well you know a person, it gets weird.

"You partying tonight at Jill’s, soldier-boy?" Carlos asked, clowning me about the ROTC thing.

"Of course I’m going. What about you? Or you got basketball practice?" I asked from inside the stall. Then I quickly followed with, "Oh, that’s right. You ain’t make the team. Again."

"Ohhhhhhhhhhh!" Shannon gassed the joke up like he always did whenever it wasn’t about him. A urinal flushed and I knew it was him who flushed it, because Shannon was the only person who ever flushed the urinals. "I swear that’s never gonna get old," Shannon said, laughter in his voice.

I unbuttoned my jacket—a polyester Christmas tree covered in ornaments—and threw it over the stall door.

"Whatever," Carlos said.

"Yeah, whatever," I shot back.

"Don’t y’all ever get tired of cracking the same jokes on each other every day?" English’s voice cut in.

"Don’t you ever get tired of stroking your own face in the mirror, English?" Carlos clapped back.

Shannon spit-laughed. "Got ’im!"

"Shut up, Shan," English snapped. "And anyway, it’s called ‘stimulating the follicles.’ But y’all wouldn’t know nothin’ about that."

"But E, seriously, it ain’t workin’!" from Shannon.

"Yeah, maybe your follicles just ain’t that into you!" Carlos came right behind him. By this point I was doubled over in the stall, laughing.

"But your girlfriend is," English said, with impeccable timing. A snuff shot, straight to the gut.

"Ohhhhhhhh!" Of course, from Shannon again.

"I don’t even have no girlfriend," Carlos said. But that didn’t matter. Cracking a joke about somebody’s girlfriend—real or imaginary—is just a great comeback. At all times. It’s just classic, like "your mother" jokes. Carlos sucked his teeth, then shook the joke off like a champ and continued, "That’s why we gotta get to this party, so I can see what these ladies lookin’ like."

"I’m with you on that one," English agreed. "Smartest thing you’ve said all day."

Off went the greenish-blue, short-sleeved, button-up shirt, which I also flung across the top of the door.

"Exactly. That’s what I’m talkin’ ’bout," Shannon said, way too eager. " ‘See what these ladies lookin’ like,’ " he mimicked Carlos, the slightest bit of sarcasm still in his voice. If I picked up on it, I knew Carlos did too.

"I can’t tell you what they’ll be lookin’ like, but I can tell you who they won’t be lookin’ at . . . you!" Carlos razzed, still on get-back from Shannon being slick and for laughing at my basketball crack. It had been at least three minutes since I made that joke, and he was still holding on to it. So petty.

"Shut up, ’Los. Everybody in here know I got more game than you. In every way," Shannon replied, totally serious.

I kicked my foot up onto the toilet to untie my patent leather shoes. Just so you know, patent leather shoes should only be for men who are getting married. Nothing about patent leather says "war."

"Argue about all this at the party. Just make sure y’all there. It’s supposed to be live," English said, the sound of his footsteps moving toward the door. He and Shannon didn’t have mandatory basketball practice like usual, but were still going to the gym to shoot around because, well, that’s what they did every day. For those guys, especially English, basketball was life. English knocked on my stall twice. "Look for me when you get there, dude."

"Bet."

"Later, ’Shad," from Shannon.

"Aight, ’Shad, hit me when you on your way over," Carlos called as the door closed behind them. Carlos grew up right down the street from me, and, like English, was a senior and therefore could drive, and therefore (again) was always my ride to the party. We smoked him with the jokes all the time because he’d tried out for the basketball team every single year, and got cut every single year, because he just wasn’t very good. But if you asked him, he was the nicest dude to ever touch a ball. What he actually was good at, though, was art, which is also why he and I got along. He wasn’t into drawing or painting, at least not in the traditional sense. He was into graffiti. A "writer." His tag was LOS(T), and they were all over the school, and our neighborhood, and even the East Side. Whenever we were heading to a party, for him it was just another opportunity to speed around the city in his clunker, the backseat covered in paint markers and spray cans, while he pointed out some of his masterpieces.

Really they were more like our masterpieces, because I was the one who gave him some of the concepts for where and how to write his tag. For instance, on the side of the neighborhood bank, I told him he should bomb it in money-green block letters. And on the door of the homeless shelter I suggested gold regal letters. And on the backboard of a basketball hoop at the West Side court, I suggested he write it in gang script. I never had the heart to do any actual tagging. I mentioned how my father was, right? Right. Plus Carlos was a pro at it. He knew how to control the nozzle and minimize the drip to get clean tags. Like, perfect. I never really told him, just because that wasn’t something we did, but I loved them. All of them.



When I walked out of that stall a few minutes later, I was a different person. It was like the reverse of Clark Kent running into the phone booth and becoming Superman, and instead was like Superman running into the booth and becoming a hopefully much cooler Clark Kent, even though I guess Superman might’ve been more comfortable in the cape and tight-ass red underwear than an ROTC uniform. But not me. No cape (and for the record, no tight-ass red underwear). I stepped out as regular Rashad Butler: T-shirt, sneakers that I had to perform a quick spit-clean on, and jeans that I pulled up, then sagged down just low enough to complete the look. My brother had given me this sweet leather jacket that he had outgrown, so I threw that on, and bam! I was ready for whatever Friday had in store for me. Hopefully, a little rub-a-dub on Tiffany Watts, the baddest girl in the eleventh grade. At least to me. Carlos always said she looked like a cartoon character. Like he could ever get her. A cartoon character? Really? Please. A cartoon character from my dreams.

But before I could get to Jill’s and get all up on Tiffany, I had a few stops to make. It was still early, and I had a couple bucks, so I could get me some chips and a pack of gum to kill the chip-breath. Can’t get girls with the dragon in your mouth. But other than that I was flat broke, and it was never cool to party without cash, just because you always had to have something for the pizza spot—Mother’s Pizza—which everyone went to either after the party was over or when the party got shut down early, which happened most of the time. Plus, you had to have money to chip in for whoever’s gas tank was going to be getting you to and from the party, like, for instance, Carlos. So I caught a bus over to the West Side to first pick up my snacks, then meet Spoony at UPS, just a few blocks from home, so he could spot me a twenty.

The bus took forever, like it always did on Fridays. Forever. So at Fourth Street, I got off and walked the last few blocks toward Jerry’s Corner Mart, the day darkening around me—crazy how early it gets dark in the fall. Jerry’s was pretty much the everything store. They sold it all. Incense, bomber jackets, beanies, snacks, beer, umbrellas, and whatever else you needed. It was named after some dude named Jerry, even though nobody named Jerry ever worked there. Jerry was probably some rich old white dude, chillin’ on the East Side, doing his thing with some young supermodel with fake everything on a mattress made of real money. Lotto-ticket money. Cheap-forty-ounce money. Bootleg-DVD money. My money.

I pushed the door to Jerry’s open. It chimed like it always did, and the guy behind the counter looked up like he always did, then stepped out from behind the counter, like he always did.

"Wassup, man," I said. He nodded suspiciously. Like he always did. There were only two other people in the store. A policeman and one other customer, back by the beer fridge. The cop wasn’t a security guard, the weaponless kind with the iron-on badges. The kind my dad tried to get my brother to apply for because they pay decent money. Nah. This cop was a cop. A real cop. And that wasn’t weird because Jerry’s was pretty much known for being an easy come-up for a lot of people. You walk in, grab what you want, and walk out. No money spent. But I never stole nothing from anywhere. Again, too scared of what my pops would do to me. Knowing him, he’d probably send me right to military school or some kind of boot camp, like Scared Straight. He’d probably say something to my mother about how my problem is that I need more push-ups in my life. Luckily, I’m just not the stealing type. But I know a lot of people who are, and there was no better playground for a thief than Jerry’s. I guess, though, after a string of hits, Jerry (whoever he is) finally decided to keep a cop on deck.

I bopped down the magazine aisle toward the back of the store, where the chips were. Right by the drinks. Grab your chips, then turn around and hit the fridge for a soda or a beer. Boom. I looked at the chip selection. Like I said, Jerry’s had everything. All the stank-breath flavors. Barbecue, sour cream and onion, salt and vinegar, cheddar ranch, flaming hot, and I tried to figure out which would be the one that could be most easily beaten by a stick of gum. But plain wasn’t an option. Seriously, who eats plain chips?

While I was trying to figure this out—decisions, decisions—the other person in the store, a white lady who looked like she’d left her office job early—navy-blue skirt, matching blazer, white sneakers—seemed to be dealing with the same dilemma, but with the beer right behind me. And I couldn’t blame her. Jerry’s had every kind of beer you could think of. At least it seemed that way to me. I didn’t really pay her too much mind, though. I figured she was just somebody who probably had a long week at work, and wanted to crack a cold brew to get her weekend started. My mother did that sometimes. She’d pop the cap off a beer and pour it in a wineglass so she could feel better about all the burping, as if there’s a classy way to belch. This lady looked like the type who would do something like that. The type of lady who would treat herself to beer and nachos when her kids were gone to their father’s for the weekend.

Now, here’s what happened. Pay attention.

I finally picked out my bag of chips—barbecue, tasty, and easily beatable by mint. That settled, I reached in my back pocket for my cell phone to let Spoony know I was on my way. Damn. Left it in my ROTC uniform. So I set my duffel bag on the floor, squatted down to unzip it, the bag of chips tucked under my arm. At the moment the duffel was open, the lady with the beer stepped backward, accidentally bumping me, knocking me off balance. Actually, she didn’t really bump me. She tripped over me. I thrust one hand down on the floor to save myself from a nasty face-plant, sending the bag of chips up the aisle, while she toppled over, slowly, trying to catch her balance, but failing and falling half on me and half on the floor. The bottle she was holding shattered, sudsy beer splattering everywhere.

"Oh my God, I’m so sorry!" the lady cried.

And before I could get myself together, and tell her that it was okay and that I was okay, and to make sure she was okay, the guy who worked at Jerry’s who everyone knew wasn’t Jerry, shouted, "Hey!" making it clear things were not okay. At first, I thought he was yelling at the lady on some you-broke-it-you-bought-it mess, and I was about to tell him to chill out, but then I realized that he was looking at my open duffel and the bag of chips lying in the aisle. "Hey, what are you doing?"

"Me?" I put my finger to my chest, confused.

The cop perked up, slipping between me and the clerk to get a better look. But he wasn’t looking at me at all. Not at first. He was looking at the lady, who was now on one knee dusting off her hands.

"Ma’am, are you okay?" the officer asked, concerned.

"Yes, yes, I’m—"

And before she could finish her sentence, the sentence that would’ve explained that she had tripped and fell over me, the cop cut her off. "Did he do something to you?"

Again, "Me?" What the hell was he talking about? I zipped my duffel bag halfway because I knew that I would have to leave the store very soon.

"No, no, I—" The lady was now standing, clearly perplexed by the question.

"Yeah, he was trying to steal those chips!" the clerk interrupted, shouting over the cop’s shoulder. Then, fixing his scowl back on me, he said, "Isn’t that right? Isn’t that what you were trying to do? Isn’t that what you put in your bag?"

Whaaaaa? What was going on? He was accusing me of things that hadn’t even happened! Like, he couldn’t have been talking to me. I wanted to turn around to check and make sure there wasn’t some other kid standing behind me, stuffing chips in his backpack or something, but I knew there wasn’t. I knew this asshole was talking to . . . at . . . about . . . me. It felt like some kind of bad prank.

"In my bag? Man, ain’t nobody stealing nothing," I explained, getting back to my feet. My hands were already up, a reflex from seeing a cop coming toward me. I glanced over at the lady, who was now slowly moving away, toward the cookies and snack cake aisle. "I was just trying to get my phone out my bag when she fell over me—" I tried to explain, but the policeman shut me down quick.

"Shut up," he barked, coming closer.

"Wait, wait, I—"

"I said shut up!" he roared, now rushing me, grabbing me by the arm. "Did you not hear me? You deaf or something?" He led me toward the door while walkie-talkie-ing that he needed backup. Backup? For what? For who?

"No, you don’t understand," I pleaded, unsure of what was happening. "I have money right here!" With my free hand, I reached into my pocket to grab the dollar I had designated to pay for those stupid chips. But before I could even get my fingers on the money, the cop had me knotted up in a submission hold, my arms twisted behind me, pain searing up to my shoulders. He shoved me through the door and slammed me to the ground. Face-first. Hurt so bad the pain was a color—white, a crunching sound in my ear as bones in my nose cracked. After he slapped the cuffs on me, the metal cutting into my wrists, he yanked at my shirt and pants, searching me. I let out a wail, a sound that came from somewhere deep inside. One I had never made before, coming from a feeling I had never felt before.

My initial reaction to the terrible pain was to move. Not to try to escape, or resist, but just . . . move. It’s like when you stub your toe. The first thing you do is throw yourself on the bed or jump around. It was that same reflex. I just needed to move to hopefully calm the pain. But moving wasn’t a good idea because every time I flipped and flapped on the pavement, with every natural jerk, the cuffs seemed to tighten, and worse, I caught another blow. A fist in the kidney. A knee in the back. A forearm to the back of the neck.

"Oh, you wanna resist? You wanna resist?" the cop kept saying, pounding me. He asked as if he expected me to answer. But I couldn’t. And if I could’ve, I would’ve told him that I didn’t want to resist. Plus, I was already in cuffs. I was already . . . stuck. The people on the street watching, their faint murmurs of "Leave him alone" becoming white noise—they knew I didn’t want to resist. I really, really didn’t. I just wanted him to stop beating me. I just wanted to live. Each blow earthquaked my insides, crushing parts of me I had never seen, parts of me I never knew were there. "Fuckin’ thugs can’t just do what you’re told. Need to learn how to respect authority. And I’m gonna teach you," he taunted, almost whispering in my ear.

There was blood pooling in my mouth—tasted like metal. There were tears pooling in my eyes. I could see someone looking at me, quickly fading into a watery blur. Everything was sideways. Wrong. My ears were clogged, plugged by the pressure. All I could make out was the washed-out grunts of the man leaning over me, hurting me, telling me to stop fighting, even though I wasn’t fighting, and then the piercing sound of sirens pulling up.

My brain exploded into a million thoughts and only one thought at the same time—

please

don’t

kill me.



Saturday

Custody. That’s the one word I kept hearing over and over again as I drifted in and out of a painkiller coma, which by the way, might’ve been the best sleep I’d had in I don’t even know how long. And that’s with a broken nose and a few fractured ribs.

Custody. They brought me into the hospital, handcuffs still on, blood still pouring from my nose like a faucet with rusty pipes. My head pounding. Every breath hurt. My jacket, the one my brother gave me, now torn.

Custody. The doctors sent me through X-rays, administered pain drugs, fiddled with my nose until it was set back in its original place, even though they made sure to tell me that it would never look the same. That it would always look broken. But once it healed I would, at least, be able to breathe normally. They applied ice packs to my ribs, which were super uncomfortable because after a while the cold makes your skin feel like it’s burning. But after that, it all goes numb.

Custody. A police officer—not the one who did this to me, but a different one, the one who fingerprinted me—stood outside the hospital room on guard, making sure I didn’t run. As if I could. As if I were a real criminal. As if I were a criminal at all. He stood watch at the door until my parents arrived.

Custody. The police officer explained to my folks that I had been caught stealing. Not only that, but that I had also been charged with resisting arrest and public nuisance. There was no point trying to explain. I could barely breathe. I could barely keep my eyes open. The officer read the citations and explained that even though they were all misdemeanors, I had been processed and would still have to appear in court. Then, because I’m a minor, my folks had to fill out paperwork so that I could be signed over and returned to their custody. After that, the police officer left.

The next morning, when I woke up from it all, there was my mother, sitting in a chair on the other side of my hospital room, staring out the window.

"Ma," I said, instantly wincing. I could feel the gauze taped to my face, to my nose. It’s that same tight feeling my skin gets after swimming, after the chlorine has turned me into cardboard. I cleared my throat and called out for her again.

She whipped toward me, sprang from the chair, and dashed over to my bedside as if I was about to deliver my last words.

"Rashad," she said, her voice full of all the motherly stuff. Worry and love and hope and fear. "Oh, baby," she repeated, rubbing her hand on my forehead gently, her voice cracking. "How you feelin’?"

The truth was, I was feeling two ways. Physically, I obviously didn’t feel great, that’s for sure. But not terrible. Not like I thought I’d feel. But maybe that was the drugs doing their thing. I did feel some soreness, though. My breathing was weird and uncomfortable. Every breath felt like a hundred tiny needles sticking me in the chest. And that was breathing through my mouth. Breathing through my nose wasn’t an option. Not yet, at least. But I was okay. Hell, I was alive. And so the other stuff—well, the alternative was way worse.

The other way I was feeling was just . . . confused. I mean, I hadn’t done anything. Nothing at all. So why was I hooked up to all these machines, lying in this uncomfortable bed? Why was I arrested? Why was my mother waiting there for me to wake up, dried tears crusted on her face, prayer on her breath?

"I’m okay," I said.

She sat on the side of the bed. "Listen, I need you to tell me what happened, Rashad. And I need you to be honest with me, okay?" But before I could answer, my father came into the room, making a not-so-grand entrance. He had two cups of coffee, and even though one was for my mother, my dad’s face looked like he could’ve used them both. And maybe a third. But him being tired didn’t stop him from preaching.

"He up?" my dad asked my mom, handing her a cup. He hadn’t even looked at me yet. If he had, just for a second, he would’ve noticed my eyes were open, a sure sign of me being awake. My mother nodded, almost as if she were giving him the green light to acknowledge me.

"Rashad." He said my name the same way he said it every other day when he was waking me up for school. As if nothing was wrong. As if he wasn’t broken up by the sight of me lying in bed, black and blue and taped and bandaged and tubed and connected to machines monitoring whether or not I was actually still breathing.

"Hmm," I grunted.

"Help me out here, son," he said in his normal voice, which was his asshole voice. "I need to know what the hell you were thinking, shoplifting. Shoplifting? And from Jerry’s of all places?" Dad had that disappointed look on his face—the same face he used to give me before I joined ROTC, the same face he made whenever he talked about Spoony.

"I didn’t steal nothin’," I said, suddenly feeling too tired to explain, even though I just woke up.

"Well then, why did the cops say you did?" Dad replied, narrowing his eyes and taking a sip of his coffee. A slurp.

"I don’t know."

"You don’t know?" Dad scoffed. "Really, Rashad? You don’t know?"

I felt a cough coming on and did everything I could to pinch it back, knowing that if I let it out, my entire body would feel like it was being hit by a million tiny hammers on the inside. I managed to get it down to a single, closed-mouth grunt, and guess what? It didn’t matter. Every bone still seemed to tremble, and my head suddenly felt full of helium.

"No, I don’t know," I repeated after getting through the cough.

"Look, baby, just tell us what happened," my mother said, calming my father down as usual. "From the beginning."

I started the story but didn’t get very far before the nurse came in, interrupting everything with breakfast.

"Good morning," she said in a singsongy way after a light knock on the door. My mother greeted her pleasantly. My father forced a hello.

"Got you some oatmeal, and some orange juice, and a little bit of fruit cocktail." The nurse set the food on the tray by my bed. "Is everything else okay?"

"What’s your name, hon?" my mother asked.

"Clarissa."

"Clarissa, everything is fine, thank you," Ma said. "But do you think we can raise the back of the bed up just a little, so he’s not lying so flat?"

"Of course," Clarissa said, sliding the tray away and coming to my side. She pulled out a remote that was wedged between the mattress and the frame. With the push of a button, the bed started to reposition, which meant my body started to reposition, which meant . . . ooooouch!

"Is that good?" Clarissa asked. I just nodded, which was hard to do because now my chin was smashed into my chest. I had literally been folded up.

She moved the food tray back so that it was close enough for me to reach, and after telling us that the doctor would be in shortly, she left, and my mother helped me situate myself on the bed so that I could look and feel normal. As normal as possible. Normal enough for my father to get back to business.

"So walk me through this, son. You got to the store . . ."

"I got to the store, just to get gum and chips. I picked the bag of chips I wanted, and then I bent down and dug in my bag to try to get my phone so I could call Spoony. This lady didn’t see me squatting behind her, and tripped over me. Then I lost my balance, and the bag of chips went flying. The cop assumed I had done something to the lady, which I didn’t. The dude who works the register looks up and thinks I’m trying to put the chips in my bag, but I wasn’t. Then the cop rushed me and yoked me up all crazy." I paused, then added, "And that’s it."

My mother sat quietly and my father paced back and forth, from the door to the window. Ma was clearly horrified. But Dad, he had on that Son, you aren’t telling me everything look. It was clear that to him, I had to have done something wrong to bring this on.

"Were your pants sagging?" Dad interrogated, now back over by the door.

"Were my pants sagging?" I repeated, shocked by the question. "What does that have to do with anything?"

"Oh, it matters. If it walks like a duck, and it talks like a duck . . ."

My mother glared at him. "David! This is your son we’re talking about. The boy’s never even been suspended."

"But they don’t know that," Dad said. "What they see is what he presents. And it sounds like he presented himself as just another—"

"Another what?" Ma cut in again, this time her voice spiking to that Don’t start level. Dad swallowed the rest of his statement.

"Well, they said you resisted arrest," he continued in another direction. "If you didn’t do anything wrong, why would you resist arrest?" His voice began to rise. "And how many times have I told you and Spoony, I mean, since y’all were young we’ve been going over this. Never fight back. Never talk back. Keep your hands up. Keep your mouth shut. Just do what they ask you to do, and you’ll be fine."

That was another one of those way-too-familiar songs Spoony and I were forced to sing when we were kids. Every time Dad said it, it was always the same. Just like the army talk. But this one was even worse, because it had a rhythm to it, like a poem, or a chant. Never fight back. Never talk back. Keep your hands up. Keep your mouth shut. Just do what they ask you to do, and you’ll be fine.

"I know, I know. And I did all that," I said, running through the scenario in my head again. "I didn’t fight back; I couldn’t. And I didn’t say jack besides trying to explain that I hadn’t done nothing wrong, but before I could even get a word out, he was all over me."

"You couldn’t have," Dad said, matter-of-fact. He looked at me as if he didn’t know me and shook his head. As if he was disappointed. As if I asked for this. That really pissed me off. That really, really got me going, because I was being blamed for something I didn’t do, not just by that stupid store clerk and that asshole cop, but also by my father. A burning sensation rose in my chest and stomach, the fractured ribs sizzling. My eyes began to water with frustration.

"I did." My voice shattered in my throat and came out pitchy and emotional. "You don’t gotta believe me. But I did." I turned my head away.

You know who did believe me? My brother Spoony. He showed up a few minutes later, after working an overnight shift at UPS and catching a quick nap. And let me tell you, when he arrived, he was full of fire.

First was the obligatory mother hug. Spoony ran over to our mom and gave her a hug and a kiss on the cheek. Made sure she was all right. Then came the "Dad." That’s all Spoony said to him. Just an acknowledgment of his presence. It’s not that he was beefing with our father or that they didn’t get along—I take that back. They really didn’t get along. They just couldn’t see eye to eye on most things. Dad was all about discipline and believed that if you work hard, good things happen to you no matter what. Of course, part of working hard, to him, was looking the part, dressing the part, and speaking the part, which Spoony didn’t really vibe with.

Spoony had, I don’t know, maybe eight or nine locs sprouting from his head like antennae. Thick and matted like strips of carpet, but I always thought they looked pretty cool. Dad . . . not so much. They’ll think you’re doing drugs, he’d say. Spoony’s clothes were always two (or three or four) sizes too big. That was just his style. That was pretty much his whole generation’s style. Nineties hip-hop, gritty, realness. Wu-Tang. Biggie. Hoodies and unlaced boots. They’ll think you’re selling drugs, Dad would say. Why can’t you get a haircut? Why can’t you dress like a respectable adult? Why can’t you set an example for your brother? Huh, son? Why? And because Spoony was tired of explaining himself, and Dad was tired of asking him to change, they kept their conversations short and sweet. Like Spoony greeting him, "Dad," head nod. Followed by Dad saying, "Spoony," head nod. And that was that.

Spoony came over to my bed.

"Li’l bruh, you good?" he said, something grape-flavored on his breath.

"I’m good."

"What happened?"

I started running the story down and got about halfway through, just up to when the cop pressed me, when Spoony lost it.

"See?" he said, looking around to our parents. "See? This is that bullshit! I’m so sick of them treating us like we animals. Like we America’s disobedient dogs!"

"Calm down, Spoony," Ma said, which only made it worse.

"Calm down? Calm down?" Spoony’s voice got significantly less calm. "Haven’t we been a little too calm? They get to do whatever they want to us, to him—to your son—and we’re supposed to just calm down?" He put his hands on his head, flattening his locs, rocking back and forth in that way people do right before they punch a wall.

"Spoony—"

"And he was unarmed! Calm down? Do you know the stats? It’s something like black people are twice as likely to have no weapons on them when they’re killed by cops. Twice as likely! Should I run down the list of the people this has happened to? Calm down? Let’s paint their names on the walls and watch, there’ll be enough to give the entire hospital a fresh new look. Then tell me to calm down. He could’ve been killed!"

"But he wasn’t," Dad said, deadpan. He seemed totally unimpressed by Spoony’s outburst, and probably wrote it off as theatrics. He was always calling Spoony a rebel without a cause.

"But he could’ve been! For a bag of chips that he was gonna pay for! For having brown skin and wearing his jeans a certain way. And guess what, Dad, that ROTC uniform was right there in that bag. The bag was open so that cop probably saw it. But did it matter?" Spoony’s voice fanned, the anger breaking him down.

"That’s enough!" Ma said firmly.

Dad and Spoony glared at each other until finally Dad turned away and looked out the window. Ma just sat on the bed, rubbing my hand, her eyes wet from it all. Spoony leaned against the wall. And I sat there thinking about what was going to happen to me. I know my father and brother were arguing about what had happened, but all I could think about in that moment was what was going to happen next. Would the charges stick? Would they follow me around, a smudge on my record until I was eighteen when it would finally disappear? Does anything actually disappear these days?

The silence was much worse than the yelling, so I fiddled with the remote. The same one that controlled my bed controlled the television. I turned it on. Too bad TV sucks on Saturday morning unless you’re a little kid or a politician. And politics are painful to watch. Boring. So the sound of helium-pitched cartoon characters had to be the life raft for this sinking ship of awkwardness. Thankfully, the doctor came in to save us from the equally awkward distraction of cartoons.

"Good morning, folks," he said, full of cheer, which was weird because this was not a cheerful occasion. But I guess doctors always have to try to lift the mood. "I’m Dr. Barnes."

"David Butler," my father said, shaking his hand.

"Jessica," my mother said, doing the same.

"Randolph," Spoony said, introducing himself with his government name. He got the nickname Spoony because when he was young, he refused to eat with a fork. He was always scared he’d poke himself in the tongue, so he only ever used spoons. But that’s not something you tell a doctor.

"And Rashad," the doctor said, pointing at me. I nodded. "Nice to meet all of you. I just want to give you all an update on what’s happening and what’s ahead of us."

"Sounds good," Dad said.

"Okay, so Rashad’s nose was broken, but we’ve already set it, so as long as he doesn’t bump it or knock it, it’ll heal just fine. The same goes for his ribs. There’s really nothing we can do about them except make sure that Rashad isn’t in any pain, but as long as they’re fairly stable, they’ll heal up as well. We did do an X-ray just to make sure there were no lacerations to any of his organs, and there weren’t, so we’re pretty much in the clear with that."

"So when can he come home?" Ma asked, starting to beam.

"Well, that’s the thing. Under normal circumstances I would say that Rashad could go home tonight." Ma stopped rubbing my hand. The doctor continued. "But this isn’t a normal circumstance. He has some internal bleeding—hemothorax, it’s called—which just means there are some torn blood vessels around his lungs due, I’m sure, to the impact. Usually, this fixes itself, but we’ll need to monitor him for a few days in case it doesn’t."

"And if it doesn’t . . . ," my mother began.

"Then he’ll need surgery," the doctor told us.

Surgery. That’s one of those words that no matter how many times you hear it, it always freaks you out. Surgery. My mother’s face tightened as she did everything she could to hold it together, but she couldn’t keep her leg from bouncing like she always does when she’s trying keep her emotions tucked in. Spoony bit down on his bottom lip. My father just seemed to be taking it all in, not particularly bothered.

"Sound good?" the doctor asked.

"Sounds good," Dad replied, shaking the doctor’s hand once more. Dr. Barnes said he’d be in to check on me in a few hours, and left.

I reached for the remote and turned the channel.

I wish there were more interesting things to tell you about the rest of the day, but the truth is that most of it I spent dozing in and out of sleep, while my family sat around watching me doze in and out of sleep. Well, at least, Ma and Dad did. Spoony was in and out of the room, making and taking phone calls, and whenever he was in the room he was texting. I didn’t know who all the texts were going to, but I knew at least some of them were going to his girlfriend, Berry. And, funny enough, Berry’s little brother was my homeboy, English. English Jones. The athlete, pretty boy, non-asshole who everybody loved. Yep, that guy. So I knew that if Berry knew what happened to me, English knew. And if English knew, Carlos and Shannon knew. And if those two dudes knew, then by Monday, half the school would know.

And then I was asleep. And then I was awake again. And Clarissa brought lunch in. I had barely touched breakfast. The oatmeal. Maybe a spoonful or two. It wasn’t so bad, but after my father acted like . . . my father, I had pretty much lost my appetite. I offered it to my mother, but she couldn’t eat either. Spoony ate the fruit cocktail and said it reminded him of elementary school.

"I used to love the grapes, but there was never enough of them," he said, holding the cup up to his face and slurping the fruit out.

For lunch, Central Hospital served up its finest turkey club sandwich with vegetable soup. I ate half the sandwich after my mother pretty much forced me to eat something, and I have to say, it was pretty good. All these years I had been hearing about how nasty hospital food was, and now that I finally got a chance to taste it, it wasn’t half-bad. Better than school lunch, that’s for damn sure.

Still nothing on TV except for an overly dramatic Lifetime movie that my mother was totally into. A cliché stalker story. A woman meets a man on a bus on her way home from work. They exchange numbers. Go out on a first date. He’s perfect: attractive, smart, and he has a good job as an audio engineer for television shows. She’s excited until she finds out he’s wired her whole house so that he can hear everything she does when he’s not around. He can hear her shower, and cook, and talk to her friends about how crazy he is. And he listens to the feed while he watches TV, on mute, in the attic of the house next door, where he lives (she doesn’t know this, though). Total stalker. Shittiest actors on Earth meets the shittiest story on Earth, which makes for the perfect Saturday afternoon movie. For my mom.

And then I was asleep. And then I was awake again. But this time, my folks were knocked out. Dad in the chair, his head bent at a painful-looking angle, his mouth wide open. As usual. My mother, small, had tucked her knees to her chest and nestled into her chair—the only cushioned one—like a child. She looked so peaceful. So calm. It was nice to see her get some rest. The only person who wasn’t asleep was Spoony. He was still sitting there. Still fooling with his phone. Still texting.

"Spoon," I called out softly—I didn’t want to wake my parents. It was nice to have the room quiet for a moment. It was nice to not see their eyes, my father’s disappointed, my mother’s all sad and worried.

Spoony looked up and rushed to my bed. "Wassup, man, you okay?"

"I’m fine, I’m fine," I said, calming him down.

"Okay," he said, glancing down at his phone. "Look, I talked to Berry and told her what happened. She’s been all over the internet, checking to see if anything has been posted—you know, some live footage or something."

"And?"

"And so far, nothing. But something’s gotta pop up. And I don’t care what Dad says, this ain’t right." He bit down on his bottom lip. "It just ain’t right. And you know me. You know I’m not gonna sit here and let them sweep this under the rug, like this is okay."

"I know."

I gotta admit, there was a part of me that, even though I felt abused, wanted to tell him to let it go. To just let me heal, let me leave the hospital, let me go to court, let me do whatever stupid community service they wanted me to do, and let me go back to normal. I mean, I had seen this happen so many times. Not personally, but on TV. In the news. People getting beaten, and sometimes killed, by the cops, and then there’s all this fuss about it, only to build up to a big heartbreak when nothing happens. The cops get off. And everybody cries and waits for the next dead kid, to do it all over again. That’s the way the story goes. A different kind of Lifetime movie. I didn’t want all that. Didn’t need it.

But I knew not to even bother saying it. Not to Spoony. No point. Because he’d agree that this was normal, and that that was the problem. Spoony had been dealing with this kind of crap for years. He’d never been beaten up, but he’d been stopped on the street several times, questioned by cops, asked to turn his pockets out and lift his shirt up, for no reason. He’d been followed around stores, and stared at on buses by women who clutched their purses tight enough to poke holes in the leather. He was always a suspect. And I knew, without him saying a word, that the one thing he never wanted, but was sure would eventually happen, was for his little brother—the ROTC art kid—to become one too. So there was nothing that was going to stop him from fighting this. There was nothing I could do to calm him down. This was not going away. This was not getting swept under the rug of "oh well." Not if Spoony had anything to do with it.


Sunday

Sunday. I slept late and woke up to an empty room. Silence. No one. So nice.

Sunday TV is just as bad as Saturday TV, so I left it off and laid there in the cold space, staring at the wall, thinking about everything.

I was supposed to have been at Jill’s party on Friday. Me, English, Shannon, and Carlos—three-piece and fries. I was supposed to be all up on Tiffany Watts, giving her the business because even though I was soldier-boy when I was in school, everybody knew I was nice with the moves. Rhythm ain’t never been an issue for me. I was the kid Spoony made dance in front of his friends when we were younger. Show them the latest steps that I picked up from music videos. I owned the block party dance contests. So Jill’s party, like every party, was my time to two-step without it being a march. My time to be at ease, and let the soul seep back into this soldier. Damn shame I didn’t make it. Instead some big-ass cop decided to have a fist party on my face. Y’know, normal stuff. No biggie. I’m just a punk-ass kid. I have no rights. Just got body slammed for no reason. Just got my life threatened, while lying flat on the sidewalk. A broken nose, broken ribs, and a knee in the back is way more exciting than fine-ass girls checking for me (after they finished checking for English).

Fuck.

Knock, knock. The door opened and there was Clarissa pushing my lunch cart in.

"Good afternoon, Rashad," she said. She had one of those voices that no matter what, was nice. Like, it could never sound mean. You know how some people have those voices? Like kindergarten teachers or librarians? "How we feelin’?" she asked, and I was momentarily confused by the "we" she was referring to.

"I’m fine," I said, forcing a small smile.

"Good. Make sure you try to get yourself up today. You can’t just lie there on your back. Also, I need you to blow into this, as hard as you can." She held up a strange-looking plastic thing with a hose sticking out of it.

"What is it?"

"It’s called an incentive spirometer. Because of your ribs, you’re going to do everything you can to not cough. But you need to cough. You gotta make sure you’re getting all the nasty stuff out of your lungs, because if it all stays in, it might turn into pneumonia and we don’t want that." Then she broke it all down to me as if I was a child, which I appreciated because I had never heard of a spirometer before. Luckily, it was a simpler process than the name suggests. All I had to do, a few times every hour, was breathe in through the tube slowly, hold it, and then breathe out.

As she set the spirometer on the side table by my bed, she announced, "For lunch today we’ve got chicken tenders, and fries, and a small salad," while setting the tray down. Then she went through the routine of checking my vitals. Blood pressure, and whatever else. Who ever really knows what all those machines and stuff are anyway? I just know the one they put on my arm is for my blood pressure, but who, besides old people, even knows what blood pressure is? Just make sure I ain’t dying, was what I was thinking as the cuff tightened around my arm.

Once she left, I got myself up, which was way more painful than I thought it would be. Who the hell knew broken ribs could make everything hurt? Or maybe it was that everything I did made the broken ribs hurt. Seemed like even blinking was painful.

I waddled slowly to the bathroom so I could handle my business—the post-sleep pee—which was interrupted by another knock at the door. This time, it was my family. Of course.

"Rashad?" my mother called through a crack in the door before pushing it open. I had just flushed and washed my hands while performing the strange task of looking at my bruised and broken face, but only in glimpses. That’s all I could take. A few seconds at a time. Three seconds, then back to the sink. Then back to the mirror for three more seconds before darting my eyes over to the paper towels. Anything longer than that made me . . . uncomfortable. Anyway, I was making my way back to the bed when my mother and father came in dressed in their Sunday spiffs. Behind them, even more Sunday. As in, Sunday himself. As in, Jerome Johnson. As in, Pastor Jerome Johnson.

"Son, Pastor’s here to see you," my father said as I eased back into bed, flashing my ashy butt at everybody, including God.

They brought the pastor? I sort of fell quickly onto the mattress and whipped my legs around until they were on the bed. Pathetic. My mother helped me adjust, fluffing the pillow behind my head and pulling the sheet over me, up to my chin, which was way too far. She kissed my forehead and stared at me as if she was trying to recognize the kid beneath the bruises and bandages. "You okay?"

"I’m fine," I said, short. She nodded, then glanced at the food tray. She lifted the plate cover, the condensation dripping all over my chicken tenders. Damn. Soggy chicken tenders suck. "You haven’t eaten?"

"It just got here. I just woke up." I said in a take it easy tone.

She kissed my forehead again, then leaned back so I could get a clear shot of my father, three-piece suited and shiny-shoed. And the minister, Pastor Johnson, dressed in an oversize suit, a gold chain with a gold cross lying perfectly in the middle of his fat satin tie. In his hand, the Bible. What else.

"How you feelin’, Rashad?" the pastor asked. Everybody was asking that, as if I was ever going to tell them the truth. Nobody wanted to hear the truth, even though everybody already knew what it was. I felt . . . violated. That’s the only way I can put it. Straight-up violated. And now, to make it worse, I had to have church. Well, sorta church. I had to have prayer.

Now don’t get me wrong. I don’t have a problem with a good prayer. I mean, I believe in God. At least I think I do. I just wondered where God was when I was being mopped by that cop. And I knew that’s what the pastor had come to tell me. That God was there. That God was always there. Which, to me, is the wrong thing to say, because if he or it or whatever was there and didn’t do nothing, then that would make God my enemy. Because he let it happen. I would much rather Pastor Johnson say that God wasn’t there. That he was busy. That he turned his back, just for a second, to check on somebody else, and that asshole officer snuck right by him and got me. But . . . nope.

"Son, I just stopped by to tell you that God is with you. He’s always with you," the pastor started, predictably. "And everything happens for a reason."

Reason? This felt like a good time for me to grab my spirometer, because I was in need of a deep breath. I mean, seriously, what reason could there have been for this? Let me guess, I was too good-lookin’ and needed an extra bump on my nose, a reminder that only English Jones runs the school?

"Now we’re going to offer up a prayer for your healing, son, believing that God’s gon’ mend you," the pastor said. "Let’s all bow our heads and look to the Lord."

My mother and father lowered their heads and closed their eyes. I didn’t do either. Kept mine open, and my head up, looking at the three of them, wondering if any of this mattered. I knew it mattered to them, my parents, and maybe that should’ve been enough for me to participate, but did it matter to me? I’m not so sure. The prayer was long and dramatic, full of the preachy punches in between each point. The pastor mentioned how Jesus was persecuted (heh) and Saul was made blind (heh) and Job was tested (heh) and David beat Goliath (heh). My mother followed right behind the pastor, accompanying his rhythmic prayer with hallelujah whispers, and my father’s manly but, I guess, godly grunts, all eventually—finally—leading to an amen.

"Amen." Spoony stood in the doorway, nodding his head, and clapping his hands, a sarcastic look on his face. Man, was I happy to see him. Ma was too. Dad, well, not so much.

"Pastor, you remember my oldest son, Randolph," he said, caught off guard.

"Yes, yes, of course I do." The pastor reached out and shook Spoony’s hand. "Ain’t seen you down at the church in a while."

"That’s ’cause I can’t afford to come."

"Spoony!" my mother gasped.

"Sorry," he said, shrugging and smirking at me.

"No, no, that’s okay," Pastor Johnson said kindly. "Nothing wrong with the boy having a mind of his own. God gave him that." Spoony just looked at Dad like, See? "Well, listen, I better be going. But we’re gonna keep you lifted up in prayer, Rashad. And we’re going to add you to the blessing list for the sick and shut-in."

But I’m not sick or shut-in. I’m beat down. Is there a list for that? But I didn’t say that. I was hoping Spoony would do some kind of big brother ESP thing and say it for me.

"Thank you so much for coming, Pastor," my mother said, clenching Pastor Johnson’s hand. My dad gave him a firm shake and a tight-lipped nod, and the churchman headed out.

Five seconds couldn’t have gone by before Spoony sat gingerly on the side of the bed and grabbed the remote.

"Come on, man. It’s Sunday. Ain’t nothing on but reruns of what we just experienced," I joked.

"Oh, there’s something else on. Trust me," Spoony said pointedly.

"You know, you don’t always have to be so damn disrespectful!" Dad started in on Spoony with a bark, settling into a chair on the other side of the room. Cursing right after the pastor left, tsk, tsk, tsk.

Spoony ignored him and turned the TV on. He nodded up to the screen. "Check it out."

I looked up at the glowing screen. And there it was. There I was. On the freakin’ news.

"Again, this is footage that was taken from a smartphone Friday night, of a police officer shoving a young man through the door of Jerry’s Corner Mart on Fourth Street. As you can see, the officer already has the young man subdued. He doesn’t seem to be resisting, but is still slammed to the ground, where the officer proceeds with what looks to be unnecessary force. Jerry’s has experienced a string of robberies, but as of now we are uncertain as to whether or not this was another one of those cases. We attempted to contact Jerry’s management for a comment but to no avail. The Springfield PD has also declined making a statement at this time. What we do know is that the young man in this video is sixteen-year-old Rashad Butler of West Springfield. We’ll keep you updated as we learn more."

My mother’s mouth gaped. "What? I mean, how . . ."

"Spoony, how’d they get my name?" I stared at the TV in disbelief.

"I told you, li’l bruh, there are always witnesses. Berry kept checking online all night, YouTube, Facebook, everything, and eventually, the video surfaced. So we sent it to the news. Told them who you were."

At this, my dad lost it. "I mean, seriously, have you lost your damn mind? Are them things on your head affecting your thinking? Rashad doesn’t need this kind of attention, Spoony. He doesn’t need all this craziness. None of us do."

Spoony jumped to his feet. "You think me sending it to the news is crazy? The crazy part is what happened to ’Shad. What’s happening all over this country. You of all people should know that!"

My father glared at Spoony and I mean he held it there, as if there was, in fact, some kind of father-son ESP thing, and he was beaming the cuss-out of the century straight to my brother’s brain. Then, like he always did, Dad stormed out of the room, followed by Spoony throwing words at his back. "Yeah, run away, as usual."

"Spoony!" Ma shouted.



My throat dried. My stomach boiled. I couldn’t believe what I was seeing. I mean, it was me, but it wasn’t. But . . . it was. I didn’t know how or what to feel. Like, how could I be that boy—a victim. Me. It was just . . . I don’t know . . . surreal. But we kept watching as the story looped. Sunday, aside from being a wack TV show day, is also apparently a slow news day. Every few minutes, the footage of me being crushed under the weight of the cop played, the newsperson talking about the "string of robberies" and not being able to get a comment from Jerry’s management or the police department. Then a picture of me dressed in my ROTC uniform flashed across the screen.

I glared at Spoony. "Where’d they get that?" I asked, already knowing the answer.

"Man, listen, I had to make sure we controlled as much of the narrative as possible. If I ain’t send that photo in, they would’ve dug all through the Internet for some picture of you looking crazy," Spoony said. "Trust me, man. I’ve seen it time and time again."

I was pissed about the photo, and to be honest, a little embarrassed by it, but I knew Spoony had a point. I would’ve hated for them to put up some picture of me hanging with Carlos, posing with my middle fingers up. Even though . . . well . . . never mind.

The story played over and over and over again, like watching a movie in virtual reality where it doesn’t really seem like you—like it’s real—but you can feel every blow, every break. You can taste blood. You can smell the officer’s breath. And that was hard for me. To see myself, like that. They kept saying it was a developing story. As more unfolds. As we learn more.

"Cut it off," I finally said.

"We need to keep up with how it develops," Spoony said.

"Cut it off, Spoon!" I reached for the remote myself and was instantly reminded that my ribs were broken. "Argkk!" My mother lifted off her seat, ready to spring into mommy mode. Spoony quickly handed me the clicker.

"Okay, okay," he said apologetically. "Take it easy. My bad, man. It’s just . . ."

"I’m fine," I said hard, shooting down whatever reason he was about to deliver. I turned the TV off. "I just don’t want to watch it no more."

The truth is, I wasn’t mad at Spoony. I wasn’t. As a matter of fact, he did exactly what I expected him to do. I just didn’t want to keep watching it.

My mother, trying to cut the tension, began digging in her church bag, which was way bigger than her normal bag. The church bag had to be big enough to fit her Sunday service survival kit. Her Bible, some candy, and all the sins of our family. "Oh, Rashad, I forgot, I brought the stuff you asked for."

The stuff I asked for was my phone and phone charger—my mother was given the duffel bag with my ROTC uniform and phone after I, and it, were released into her custody. But more importantly, I wanted my art supplies—sketchbook and pencils. That’s all I really needed. That was my hospital survival kit.

She plugged my phone in the wall and put the sketchbook and pencils on the roller tray-table next to the chicken tenders I now wasn’t going to be eating. And as soon as my phone had enough juice to power on, the damn dog started barking. Nonstop.

Let me explain.

Me and Carlos had this stupid joke that whenever we were going to a party, we would set our text message alerts to a crazy sound effect. Not for any real reason. I mean, originally it was so we’d always know where each other was, or be able to find a phone if any of us lost one. But at a party, who would be able to hear it over the music? See, stupid. But we kept doing it because it was our thing. A tradition. Like, good luck, or something.

This week Carlos picked a dog bark, just because he thought it would be funny, or dare I say, cool, to tell a girl that there was something in his pants, barking. I mean, it was kind of funny. But also, so wack. Then he challenged me and said that he could get a girl with that bark line before I could. Truth is, I wasn’t even going to try. But I played along and changed my alert anyway. And now that my phone had enough battery to turn on, the dog was barking crazy.

"Hand me that," I said to Spoony, who was frowning at all the stupid noise.

I checked my messages.

FRIDAY 4:43 p.m. from Spoony

SHAD YOU STILL COMIN TO GET $$?

FRIDAY 5:13 p.m. from Spoony

??? WTF

FRIDAY 5:21 p.m. from Los

YO BE AT MY CRIB BY 7

FRIDAY 5:22 p.m. from Los

AND WATCH HOW MANY GIRLS I GET WITH THAT DOG JOKE

FRIDAY 5:23 p.m. from Los

U KNO GIRLS LUV DOGS DUDE!

FRIDAY 5:35 p.m. from Los

WHERE U AT?

FRIDAY 5:51 p.m. from Spoony

WHERE U AT?

FRIDAY 6:05 p.m. from Ma

HEY, SPOONY AND CARLOS CALLED HERE LOOKING FOR YOU. I CALLED BUT IT KEEPS GOING TO VOICE MAIL. CALL ME.

FRIDAY 7:00 p.m. from Los

DUDE UR KILLIN’ ME. WHERE THE FUCK ARE U?

FRIDAY 8:47 p.m. from Los

I DONT KNOW WHERE U ARE BUT IM OUT. IF U CAUGHT A RIDE WITH SOMEBODY ELSE YOU COULDA TOLD ME BRO. DAMN. UNLESS YOU WITH A GIRL. THEN I UNDERSTAND. BUT I KNO U NOT. I’LL CATCH YOU AT THE PARTY. BRING YOUR BEST GAME.

FRIDAY 10:03 p.m. from English

SHAD YOU HERE? ME SHAN AND LOS LOOKIN FOR U. LOS TRIPPIN! LMAO

SATURDAY 1:01 p.m. from Los

WHERE WERE U? OF COURSE IT GOT SHUT DOWN. SHIT WAS BANANAS!

SATURDAY 4:26 p.m. from Shan

YO, LOS IS TIRED OF TEXTN U SO NOW IM TEXTN U. U GOOD?

SATURDAY 4:41 p.m. from Shan

WHERE ARE U?

SATURDAY 4:49 p.m. from Los

ENGLISH JUST TOLD ME BERRY SAID U IN THE HOSPITAL!

SATURDAY 4:51 p.m. from English

U IN THE HOSPITAL? WTF

SATURDAY 4:52 p.m. from Shan

YO YOU IN THE HOSPITAL BRO? ENGLISH SAID SOME SHIT ABOUT THE COPS?

SUNDAY 12:11 p.m. from Los

YO YOU ON THE NEWS! CRAZY!

Crazy, indeed. I scrolled through, reading them all before sending quick responses to the three of them—Shannon, Carlos, and English—letting them know that I was okay. Well, I said a little more than that.

SUNDAY 12:17 p.m. to Los, Shan, English

IM GOOD FELLAS. GOT ACCUSED OF STEALING FROM JERRY’S AND THE COP ON DUTY ROUGHED ME UP. BROKE MY NOSE AND SOME RIBS. BUT IM OK.

"I see he’s got his lifeline back," Dad grumbled, coming back into the room, looking calmer than when he’d left.

"Yeah, so he should be back to normal in no time," Ma said, trying to be positive.

"I don’t know about that," Spoony muttered. Thankfully my father didn’t hear him, because I wasn’t sure I could take another blowup. So I turned the TV back on quick. A risk, I know. But I had to do something as it looked like my folks were settling in for the afternoon. And guess what saved the day? Football.

"Ah. Football," Spoony said. "Another one of America’s favorite pastimes, besides baseball, and beating the brains out of—"

"Chill," I ordered. Honestly, I just wanted to take it easy for the rest of the day. I didn’t want to hear Spoony preach about how hard it is to be black, or my father preach about how young people lack pride and integrity, making us easy targets. I didn’t even want to think about the preacher preaching about how God is in control of it all, or my mother, my sweet, sweet mother caught in the middle of it all. The referee who blows the whistle but is way too nice to call foul on anyone. That’s her. She just wants me to be okay. That’s it and that’s all. So if football was going to be the thing that took our minds off the mess for at least a few hours, then fine with me. Let’s cheer and scream and cuss at the TV. Not at each other.

When the game was over, my family left. And at that moment, I thanked the God I hoped was there. Back to an empty, peaceful room. Just me and my spirometer, which, by the way, was also pretty painful to use. I mean, to inhale slowly felt like sucking in shards of glass. Yeah—not awesome.

After the game, the news came on. The first story was about a kid accused of stealing from a store on the West Side. The footage of me being thrown to the ground. Again. Again. Again. My picture. My name. Again. And now, a new development. The officer’s name. Officer Paul Galluzzo. And his face on the screen.



There’s this dude named Aaron Douglas. Scratch that. There was this dude named Aaron Douglas. A painter in the time of the Harlem Renaissance. Mrs. Caperdeen, my art teacher freshman year, turned me on to him during a lesson about artists from that period. Now, I had already been into art, way before Mrs. Caperdeen’s class. I’ve been drawing since I was like five or six. It came from hanging out with my dad after church on Sundays. Well, Spoony and Ma would be there too, but for some reason, when I think back on it, it always seemed like it was just me and Dad, probably because we had our own thing. Our own after-church tradition. He would drive the whole family to this diner downtown. Ma would order the eggs and English muffin, Spoony always got the French toast, and me and Dad both got pancakes. Then Spoony and Ma would go back and forth trading corny jokes, which I was usually all about, except on Sundays. Sundays was when I butted out and let the two of them have their dry humor because me and Dad, we had pancakes, coffee (hot chocolate for me), and the newspaper.

Dad, of course, would be really reading the newspaper. Politics, current events, sports, every single story. But he’d pull the comics section out and hand it to me. As I’m sure you can tell by now, my old man doesn’t do funny all that well. But me, I loved the comics. All of them. But there was one in particular that struck me more than the others, and the funny thing is, I’m not really sure why. It definitely wasn’t the funniest one. As a matter of fact, most times it wasn’t funny at all. Not to me, at least. It was called The Family Circus. A brilliant name for a comic strip, even though the family in the comic wasn’t much like a circus. They were pretty normal. And the strip wasn’t really a "strip." It was just one image. One scene. Not like the others, which were made up of a whole bunch of different boxes, each one telling more of the story. I know you know what I mean. Everybody knows what comic strips look like. But this one, The Family Circus, was just one picture, in a circle. Not even in a box like normal comics. And it was all about this normal white family. Four kids, two parents, and a grandma. And nothing ever seemed to be happening. Like I remember this one, where the oldest son, Billy, and his younger siblings are watching their grandmother talk on the phone, and it just said, Grandma’s phone is really old-fashioned. That’s it. See? No punch line. Not funny, and if anything, it’s actually pretty lame. But maybe that’s why I liked them. Maybe I was fascinated by the fact that it seemed like white families, at least in comics, lived simple, easy lives. That, and also the images—I loved them. Loved them. And every Sunday after church I would tear The Family Circus out to save.

By the time I got to Mrs. Caperdeen’s class, and by the time she taught the lesson about Aaron Douglas, I had collected like a thousand Family Circus clips. I stored them all in a shoe box under my bed and would go through them sometimes, just to pick one out to copy-sketch. And after a while, I got better at drawing and started making my own family cartoons in the same style. I called them The Real Family Circus, and most of them featured a cartoon version of my father shouting at a cartoon version of my brother. But when I saw Mr. Douglas’s work, well, The Family Circus kinda went out the window. Aaron Douglas was doing a different thing, on a whole other level.

Let me describe what his work looks like. Imagine The Lion King. But all the lions are people. Black people. So Simba and Mufasa, are, let’s say, a black king and a prince. Now, imagine that you’re looking at them through the thickest fog ever. So thick that you can’t make out any actually feature on their bodies, but you can still see their silhouettes. So it could be any king. Or any prince. But you can still tell they’re black. That’s Aaron Douglas’s work. And the first time Mrs. Caperdeen showed us a slide from his series Aspects of Negro Life, I knew the kind of art I wanted to start making.

And so I did. The only difference was that I framed mine in a circle, like The Family Circus.

And that’s why I needed Ma to make sure she brought me my sketch pad and pencils.

I woke up early, and before doing anything else, before getting up and having a morning pee, or brushing my teeth, or spirometering, I turned the TV on, muted it, then grabbed my stuff and starting sketching on a fresh page. I wasn’t sure what I was drawing.

That’s not true.

I knew exactly what I was drawing. The only thing I could. I was going to re-create the scene, what had happened to me, what was playing constantly on the news, on the page.

First the outline. A teenage boy. Hands up. No. Erase. Hands down. No. Hands behind his back. Outline of a figure behind him. Bigger than he is. Holding him around the neck. No. Not that. Fist in the air. No. Not that either. Hand pushing through the teenage boy’s chest. A building behind him. A store. Person in the doorway. Cheering.

After the rough outline I started shading, which was the tricky part. See, in Aaron Douglas’s work, there’s always this haziness. This ghostliness to everything. But then there’s also lots of light. As if light beams just break through certain parts of the paintings. I like that. But in order for me to get that look with pencils, I have to do a lot of shading. A lot of licking my finger and smearing the pencil lead to make a lighter gray on some parts of the paper, then scratch the pencil over and over again on some other areas to make darker marks. Like I said, tricky.

Clarissa came in in the middle of me rubbing my wet thumb on the paper, adding a little light to a dark area.

"Hey, there," she said, bringing in breakfast. "How we doing?"

"I’m cool," I said, smirking. Clarissa set the food down. Pancakes and fruit cocktail. She glanced at the pad, the black and gray smudges probably seeming like a crazy mess to her. Then she shot her eyes at the silent TV.

"So you’re an artist, huh?" she said, her focus now back on my work.

"Yeah," I said.

"I knew it."

I looked at her curiously. "Oh yeah? How you know?"

"I don’t know. I could just tell." She could just tell? Yeah right. What she really meant to say was, I want to say something, but I don’t know what to say. Instead she followed with, "Mind if I look?"

"It’s just the beginning," I prefaced, handing her the sketch pad.

Clarissa, who by the way couldn’t have been much older than Spoony, maybe early twenties, white, freckles, bright-red hair, looked at the start of my new piece.

"What you gonna call it?"

"Don’t know yet," I said, shrugging. Sheesh. Even that hurt.

"Well, it looks like it’s gonna be good. I mean, not good because I mean, this whole thing, this, I mean . . ." She went bright red but soldiered on. "I just mean it looks like it’s going to be nice. Nice art," she finished, handing the pad back to me.

"You’ve seen the news," I said, letting her off the hook.

Clarissa glanced at the TV again. Then back to me. She sighed. "Yeah. And . . . I think it’s bullshit." She put her hand to her mouth, probably realizing that maybe nurses shouldn’t curse. Not that that was my rule, it just seemed like it was probably discussed somewhere in the training that you might wanna refrain from using foul language around patients. I liked it, though, and even thought about responding with a hell yeah it’s bullshit! but figured that would probably be a little too much. "I think it’s just so . . ." Clarissa couldn’t finish her statement. I nodded to let her know I understood and that I was having just as much trouble trying to figure it all out too. But one thing we could agree on was the part about it being bullshit.

To cut some of the discomfort that now surrounded us, I flipped through the pages in the sketchbook to show her some of my more finished pieces.

"This is what a completed piece looks like," I said, holding the pad up.

The image was of silhouettes of soldiers. Maybe twenty of them in a line, marching. At the back were babies. Marching. And they progressively got bigger, older, and right in the middle was the ultimate image of a strong soldier. And then they started getting smaller again, becoming a baby again.

"Wow," she said. "It’s beautiful. Why do you frame them in a circle like this? Why not use the whole page?"

"Because, well, the circle changes how you see it. Like, what are we looking through? A telescope? A peephole? The sight of a gun?"

"I see," she said. "But how come none of them have faces?"

"I don’t know. Maybe they’re there, but they’re not. Like, ghosts. Or invisible people," I said, instantly thinking that sounded dumb, but hoping Clarissa would just think I sounded artsy.

She nodded, then glanced at the TV again. It was like a magnet. My face was on the screen. "Well listen here, Rashad, the artist," Clarissa said, low. "Don’t forget what I said about getting up and moving around. It’s important." She wagged her finger at me playfully. "I’ll come back and check on you later."

I worked on the drawing for a while, until my hand started to cramp up, which is just one of those things that happen when you work with pencil. Seems like some genius would’ve figured out how to make pencils out of rubber or something a little softer, even though that’s probably a silly thing to even think. But when your hand starts aching in the middle of such a personal piece, there’s no telling what you might think about.

I put the pencil and pad down and decided to follow Clarissa’s instructions and get up. But not only did I decide to get up, I decided to get the hell out of that empty, boring, beige hospital room. Room 409.

I climbed out of bed, snatched the back of my robe closed, and ventured out into the wild—not so wild—world of the hospital. I hunched over like an old man, protecting, I guess, my ribs—they hurt more when I stood straight. I eased slowly down the hall, each step pricking me inside, as I looked around at the nurses and the doctors and the families standing around the beds of their loved ones in the rooms with opened doors. Phones ringing. Machines beeping. Doors opening and closing. Soda cans dropping in vending machines. Conversations about next steps and tests and surgeries. At the end of the hall was an elevator that happened to open the moment I got to it. A doctor got off, and I got on for no other reason than that it was there, open, waiting for me.

I hit the "1" button, and down to the first floor I went. Once the doors opened again, I found myself in the busiest part of the building, the main floor where people were checking in, doctors and nurses zipping back and forth to the cafeteria, and most importantly, where the gift shop was. It was the only thing remotely interesting. So, destination gift shop was in full effect.

It didn’t take long for me to realize that hospital gift shops have terrible gifts. At least that one did. I mean, really bad gifts. Oh, so sorry you’re in the hospital having your legs amputated. Know what’ll make you feel better? A snow globe with a unicorn in it. Oh, so sorry to hear about your cancer. But I’ve got just the picker-upper. A refrigerator magnet of a lighthouse that says SPRINGFIELD. Ain’t no lighthouses in Springfield, but who cares!

I poked around, looking at all the snacks (they did have good snacks), weird doodads, and whatnots, trying not to make any moves that were too sudden. It was more of a step-step-step, swivel head to the left, then to the right. Repeat. Nice and easy.

The woman behind the counter didn’t seem to be paying me any attention and instead was flipping through the newspaper. She had to be in her sixties. I could tell, not because she looked old—she didn’t—but because she had all those little moles all over her face that only old black ladies get. My grandma had them.

"Can I help you?" she asked, catching me off guard. I threw my hands up and backed away from the assortment of plastic flowers.

"Just lookin’, just lookin’," I said, wound up.

She zeroed in on me, smirked. "Relax, kid. I’ve been here long enough to know that no one steals from a hospital gift shop. And if someone did, well, hey, I can’t blame them. We should be giving this stuff away."

I put my hands down, embarrassed. "Sorry."

"Never apologize when there’s nothing to be sorry for." She put her eyes back on the newspaper, licked her thumb, then flipped the page. I just stood there like an ass, until she spoke again. "But seriously, do you need anything?"

I almost apologized again, but caught myself. Not sure why I was all sorry sorry sorry, all of a sudden. "Nope."

"So you just came to see me?" she asked sarcastically. And before I could say no, she demanded, "Say yes."

I nodded with a big grin on my face and walked toward the counter. "Yes," followed by the truth. "Honestly, I just needed to get out of my room."

"Yeah, I hear ya." She closed the paper and extended her hand. "Well, I’m Shirley Fitzgerald."

"Rashad." I squeezed her fingers lightly.

Mrs. Fitzgerald and I talked a while, but I didn’t tell her anything about why I was in the hospital. At least, not the truth. I told her I got banged up in a car accident.

"Were you wearing your seat belt?" she asked predictably.

"Yep, thankfully." I felt bad lying to an old lady, but I had to. This was the most comfortable I had felt in a while. Turns out the best gift in the gift shop was the fact that it didn’t have a TV. No news. No fuss.

After we got through why I was in the hospital, I asked Mrs. Fitzgerald how long she’d been working there.

"I don’t even know. Maybe three or four years. Lost track. Wait, let me think. Frank died . . ." She started running through the timeline in her head. "Yeah, four years. Mercy, has it been that long?" She put her hand to her neck and fiddled with the gold chain she was wearing. A ring dangled from it. "My babies are grown. My grandbabies, too. And my husband has gone on to glory, so this is how I spend my time. I volunteer here a few days a week, and on my off days, I go and volunteer down at the firehouse."

"What you do down there?"

"I fight fires, what you think I do?" she snapped.

"Oh," I said, stunned. I mean, she was old. Like, too old to be hosing down blazing houses, that’s for sure. "That’s cool."

"That’s a lie, baby," she said, grinning, and flipping the newspaper back open, fanning through it until she got to the comics. The rest of my time with her was spent with me standing at the register and her reading funnies out loud, and either bursting with laughter, or totally shit-talking about how lame some of them were. Eventually, my body, waist up, started broiling on the inside, and I knew it was time to make my way back to the fourth floor.

"Come back and see me, Rashad. An old lady needs a little company every now and then," Mrs. Fitzgerald said.

"I will."



Around four o’clock, I had visitors. But it wasn’t my family this time. It was my boys.

"Housekeeping," a light voice came from behind the door, after a tap. "Housekeeping." Then came the idiotic snicker of only one person—Carlos.

"Don’t come in!" I yelled.

"Oh, come on, Rashad. I know how much you love housekeeping," Carlos said, lowering his voice ten notches below its normal tone. He pushed the door open and English, Shannon, and Carlos filed in, backpacks and all.

"Oh man," Shannon said, instantly becoming serious when he saw me lying in the hospital bed, my face swollen, bruised, bandaged.

"Dude!" English came right behind him, shocked.

"It’s nothing," I said.

"Nothing?" Now even Carlos was serious.

"Come on, y’all. I’ve gotten it from my family already. So just chill. I’m fine," I insisted. Carlos leaned against the wall. English and Shannon took the chairs. Their eyes, caught between bad and worse, bounced from me to the TV. The Rashad Show, on repeat. I tried to bait them back in. "Tell me about the party." Carlos was the first to bite, of course.

"Yo, guess who almost got some?" Carlos asked, a clownish smile spreading across his face.

"Who, English?" I replied.

Carlos shot me a mean mug. "Really? Really, ’Shad?" He lowered the lids of his eyes until they were almost closed, then popped them open wide and bawked, "Me, man! That dog bark thing totally worked! My game was on a million, man, I swear."

"Who was it?"

"Sweet, sweet Tiffany Watts." Carlos closed his eyes and puckered his lips as if he was remembering some passionate kiss.

I glared at Carlos. "My Tiffany Watts?"

"Yep, cartoon-character-looking Tiffany." Now he wrapped his arms around himself and swayed. Asshole. My heart stopped. That cop didn’t kill me, but the thought of Carlos getting with Tiffany might be the fatal blow.

Shannon couldn’t hold it in anymore and burst out laughing. Then Carlos flashed a toothy smile.

"Sike, man. You know I wouldn’t do you like that. I know her Daffy Duck–lookin’ ass is the love of your life," Carlos teased. When dealing with a clown like Carlos, the key is to never let him see you flustered. Never let him think you take him seriously. It’s the opposite, come to think of it, of how we were trained to deal with police. With your friends, you never put your hands up. I have to admit, though, Los almost got me with that one.

"By the way, she asked about you today," Shannon said.

"Word? What she say?" I asked, eager.

"Just that she and a bunch of other people were thinking about coming to visit you," Shannon explained.

"No," I waved my hand, as if I was waving off the thought of Tiffany coming. "No one can come. I don’t want nobody to see me like this."

"You sure?" Shannon asked.

"Yeah, man. Please. Tell everyone I’m fine. But no visitors." I caught eyes with each of them to make sure they knew I was serious. I didn’t need anybody else standing in front of me all teary-eyed, or sitting on the edge of the bed feeling awkward. I’d already had enough of that

When I caught Carlos’s eye, he jumped right back into form. "Man, can I finish my story?! Damn!" he said, all indignant.

"Yeah, yeah, go ’head," I said, trying to rush him along.

"So, the girl I got a little closer to was, drumroll please!"

"Come on, man," I huffed.

"You wanna know or not?"

"I don’t really care."

"Just give me a drumroll, bro. C’mon."

I shook my head and started patting on my legs, doing my best to ignore the pricking feeling in my abdomen.

"Latrice Wilkes!" Carlos blurted this out like a dude squatting behind a couch waiting to yell surprise to an unsuspecting birthday boy. "Latrice ‘Silky’ Wilkes."

Now, Latrice Wilkes was no slouch. As a matter of fact, she was pretty much one of the coolest, prettiest girls in our class. And "Silky" really wasn’t her nickname. That’s just what we called her among each other, and I have no idea why.

"For real?" I was honestly surprised. I mean, Latrice was way out of Carlos’s league. "Okay, okay, well, then why was it an almost?"

"Because . . ."

"Because then Latrice saw English," Shannon interjected, with perfect timing.

"Whatever! It’s because the cops came and messed my whole groove up," Carlos shot back.

I laughed. Hard. Well, as hard as I could without feeling like my head was going to explode, or my ribs were going to rip through my chest. Once I finally got it under control, I said, "Well, listen, if it makes you feel any better, the cops messed my groove up too."

None of them laughed. Not one of them. You could almost feel the temperature of the room drop, like the way light dims whenever a cloud floats in front of the sun. I was that cloud. So I changed the subject. "Anyway, what else is going on at school?"

"Same ol’ shit. You ain’t miss much except for the fact that everybody’s talkin’ about you," Shannon explained.

"Yeah, you finally popular," Carlos mocked. I couldn’t figure out if he was trying to bring the mood back to a lighter tone, or if he was just trying to make up for getting crushed by Shannon. Or both. "This might even land you an actual date with Tiffany."

"Please, I don’t need no broken nose to get a girl." The mere mention of it made the bandage itchy. I scratched it super gently.

"Take what you can get, bro. It’s an easy layup," Carlos replied.

"Too bad you didn’t have all this layup knowledge when you were trying out for the team, huh?" I owed him a good one for the I almost got with Tiffany joke. Redemption.

"Yeah, whatever."

Me and Carlos went back and forth because it’s what we do, but neither one of our hearts was in it. The jokes lacked punch. No zing. Just . . . flat. Like The Family Circus.

"Forget all that, man. When you getting outta here?" Shannon asked. He stretched his legs, crossed them at the ankles.

"The doctor just left right before y’all got here. He said my nose and ribs are healing fine, but they’re still watching me because I got some internal bleeding. He said it hasn’t gotten any worse, thank God, and that after a few more days I should be good to go."

"Sweet," Carlos said. Meant it.

"Cool," Shannon said.

English didn’t say nothing. He just stared at the TV like he was in a trance.

"English, you good?" I asked.

"Yeah, yeah," he said, snapping out of it. "I just . . . I don’t know, man. This is crazy. You know that’s Guzzo’s brother, right?"

"Guzzo?"

"Yeah, big giant goony kid on the team. His brother is the asshole who did this to you. Paul Galluzzo. That’s why they call Guzzo, Guzzo. It’s short for Galluzzo," English explained.

"Wait, you tellin’ me the ogre-looking dude on the team, that’s his brother?" I asked.

"That’s exactly what I’m telling you."

"Has he said anything?"

"Not that I know of. Coach Carney won’t let us talk about it," English explained. "Says we gotta focus on the team and our season, and that’s it, and to leave all this stuff at the door. Said he’d bench anybody who brought it on the court."

"And you can’t afford to be benched, dude. Especially since scouts are checkin’ for you, hard," I said.

"Yeah. But it’s just nuts."

"Yo, what I wanna know is, what the hell happened," Shannon jumped in. "Since Carney’s made it clear that I ain’t allowed to ask Guzzo, let me hear your side of the story. I mean, English told us what Berry said, but I wanna hear it from you."

That was my cue. I knew English had already heard most of it from his sister, but I still gave the fellas the play-by-play, hoping that somewhere in it, it would make sense. But it didn’t. I grabbed a bag of chips, reached into my bag to grab my cell phone, a random lady tripped over me, and the next thing I know I was getting pressed out by the officer. There really wasn’t anything else to the story as far as I was concerned. The cop and the clerk thought I was stealing and wouldn’t give me a chance to explain.

"Did you resist?" Shannon asked.

"Why would I resist? C’mon, man, you know I was shook. Ain’t no way I was resisting," I said. "And when he got me on the ground, that’s when he really started going in. Like, every time he hit me, I would move—who wouldn’t—it HURT!—and then he’d tell me to stop moving. But I couldn’t help it."

"Shit," Carlos said, his eyes full wide.

English was staring at the TV again, his face now becoming a fist, tight and angry. The room was stifling with a weird tension, this strange sadness, when finally Shannon spoke up. "English."

English didn’t respond.

"English!" Shannon snapped.

"What?" he snapped back. And that’s when I could tell this whole thing was getting to him. It was stirring him up inside in a way that I had never seen before. I mean, this was English Jones, the coolest dude on Earth.

English braced his hands on either arm of the chair, and for a second I thought he was going to throw it. But then he drew a deep breath and simply said, "We got practice. We gotta go."

He looked from Shannon to me, his eyes slightly glassy. He stood up. Shannon stood with him.

"Yo, what we gonna do about this?" Carlos asked, watching English and Shannon grab their bags. He ran his finger along his nose like he always did when he was thinking of something he probably shouldn’t have been thinking of.

"I don’t know. But I’m telling you, Coach ain’t playing," Shannon said, flinging his bag up on his shoulder.

"Just leave it alone," I said.

"Naw, man, we gotta do something, ’Shad. I mean, maybe you can’t do nothing, ’cause you in here. And maybe these two can’t do nothing because of punk-ass Carney. But I’m not on the team." Carlos caught my eye and stopped me from cracking a basketball joke before I could even open my mouth. "So I can do something. Somebody gotta do something."

"Los, just don’t be stupid," English warned, coming over to the bed and giving me five.

Carlos didn’t respond. Instead he just asked me if I wanted him to stay. Carlos didn’t have anywhere to be. He never had anywhere to be.

"Naw, I’m cool," I said. "I’m sure my parents and my crazy brother will be by here later."

"Word," from Carlos.

"We’ll be back tomorrow," from Shannon, reaching out for my hand.

Only a nod from English. And then it was just me, the TV, and the shadows, fades, and outlines of my art again. I thought about the fact that English and Shannon wanted to do something but were afraid to break the rules. I understood. I did. But the look on English’s face was a look I had never seen. He was struggling with it all. Maybe it was what happened to me that was eating him. Or maybe it was the fact that he felt like he couldn’t do anything about it. And then I thought about what kind of ridiculous plan Carlos might cook up. I just didn’t want him to put himself in some stupid situation where he got his ass beat too. Even though I hadn’t had to put myself in any "situation" for that to happen.

I glanced at the TV. My face, again. Wasn’t there anything else going on? I mean, there had to be something going on in the Middle East, right? Celebrity drama? Anything besides me?

I wasn’t sure what to do about any of it, or if I even wanted anyone else to do anything on my behalf. The looks on my friends’ and family’s faces—it hurt me to see them that way. Especially knowing that it hurt them to see me this way. I didn’t deserve this. None of us did. None of us.

I grabbed the remote, pointed it at the screen, and hit the power button to click it off. But it didn’t go off. I clicked it again. Nothing. I slapped the remote in my palm a few times, because that’s what you do to, I guess, activate the batteries. Clicked again. Nothing.

Now, split screen. Galluzzo’s face, next to mine. Him in his uniform. Me in mine. But we were not the same. We were not the same.

I didn’t deserve this. Click. Nothing. Click. Nothing. My eyes began to well up and my throat suddenly felt scorched, as if I had swallowed fire. Click. Click. Click. Click. Nothing. Fuck. Click. Please. Please turn off. Please. His face. Next to mine. I didn’t do nothing. I didn’t do nothing. His face. Made my bones hurt. A scrapy feeling in the marrow stuff. Fuck. Click. Nothing. Click. NOTHING. I couldn’t take it anymore, and before I did something stupid like throw the remote across the room, smashing it into hundreds of plastic pieces that I wish were Galluzzo’s face, I leaped from the bed in a panic and yanked the cord from the wall, which turns out was also stupid because it felt like giant hands that I couldn’t see were ripping me in half.

But the TV was off. My face next to his, gone. Finally.



As the story of sixteen-year-old West Springfield native Rashad Butler develops, the city seems to be split in terms of which side of the argument they fall on in this case. Was it about race? The abuse of power? Or was it just another case of a teenage criminal, caught red-handed? For those who are just joining us, we’ve been covering this story for a few days now. Last Friday, Butler was accused of shoplifting, public nuisance, and resisting arrest. The officer involved, Paul Galluzzo, is shown here forcibly removing Butler from Jerry’s Corner Mart. Butler seems to be cooperating with the officer, but as you can see, he is taken to the ground. Warning: The rest of the scene is a bit graphic. We were able to catch up with Claudia James, the person who actually shot this footage from her phone."

"It was just like y’all saw it. That boy was being manhandled, and he kept saying that he didn’t do nothing. He kept trying to explain. But the officer was just yelling, ‘Shut up! Shut up!’ And then slammed him. Then once he had him on the ground he started, like, punching and kneeing him in the back. He shoved his forearm on the back of the boy’s neck. It was crazy."

"But had he been handcuffed?"

"Once he was on the ground, he was. I mean, how could he have been resisting?"

"But not everyone shares Ms. James’s view. Some people feel that whatever it takes to clean up the community, so be it. Like Roger Stuckey."

"We don’t know what happened in that store, so I’m not gonna sit here and just say this kid is innocent. He might not be. I’m a cabdriver, and I work nights, and the truth is, if that kid was trying to hail me down, and it was dark outside, I would keep on going."

"And why is that? Because of the way he looks?"

"I mean, listen, I’ve been robbed before. Right around here. And I just . . . I don’t ever want to be robbed again. And he looks like the guy who robbed me. He was dressed just like him. These kids are crazy these days, and whatever it’s gonna take to make the people who live around here feel safe, I’m all for it."



When I woke up, I followed the same routine as the day before. Well, not exactly the same. First I plugged the TV back in. Then I tried to turn it on, but the remote was still on the fritz. Sometimes when the batteries are getting weak, and smacking it against your palm doesn’t work, you have to slide the back off and run your thumb over the batteries to turn them, and that makes them work. Sometimes. This time.

The TV came on and I watched for a minute. Everyone had opinions. The lady who caught the incident on tape seemed to side with me and thought the cop was wrong. But not everybody felt that way. There was a cabbie who straight up said he wouldn’t pick me up if he saw me at night. That really pissed me off. I mean, I had heard Spoony talk about that for years. I never took cabs (the bus was cheaper), but he was always going on and on about how he could never catch a cab because of the way he looked. But I didn’t look nothing like Spoony. Nothing. I mean, I wear jeans and T-shirts, and he wears jeans and T-shirts, so we look alike in that way, but who doesn’t wear jeans and T-shirts? Every kid in my school does. And sneakers. And sweatshirts. And jackets. So what exactly does a kid who "looks like me" look like? Seriously, what the hell?

You would think I would cut the TV off, but I didn’t. Maybe because there was something about having this moment in my life, literally hovering above my head, that served as some kind of weird inspiration for the picture I was making. So, as usual, I muted it, then dove into my art. Oatmeal for breakfast. Chicken burrito for lunch. Ginger ale. Art in between it all.

Clarissa had been in and out of the room, checking my vitals. Checking to make sure I was eating and using my spirometer. Checking to see how the piece was coming along.

"It’s gonna be so good when it’s done," she said, jotting down my blood pressure. She looked exhausted.

"You work every day?" I asked, shrugging off her compliment. It’s not that I was trying to be rude. I just didn’t really know if "good" was how this piece was actually going to end up.

"I have been. I usually work every other day, twelve-hour shifts. But I took on some extra work this week. Covering for a friend."

It wasn’t hard to tell that that’s just how Clarissa was. A for-real, for-real nice person. So when she brought the lunch in, I told her how thankful I was that she had been looking after me, and how happy I was that she had taken those extra shifts. My mother always raised me to be thankful. She always said, nobody owes you anything, so when you get something, be appreciative. And I was.

"I mean, I know it’s your job, but you’re really good at it. So, thanks."

Clarissa flashed a smile that slipped into an unexpected yawn. "It’s my pleasure. Just trying to add a little sunshine," she said, lifting a hand to her mouth. She was so sweet, but man was she corny!

"I hear ya. Well, you’re doing that. Every time you come in here, you brighten the whole room up. Maybe it’s the hair."

The red hair up against her pale skin, like fire burning at the end of a match.

"Ah, yes. Ginger magic," she joked. "You know, I’m the last of a dying breed."

"What you mean?"

"I mean, gingers. Redheads. We’re going extinct."

"Seriously? Like something is killing y’all?"

"Not exactly. It’s like, not enough redheads are having babies with other redheads. So we’re just not being born anymore." Clarissa laughed, then glanced up at the muted TV. Her eyes narrowed. "Check it out."

I looked up, reluctantly, and there on the screen was the police chief. So I unmuted. We listened. He didn’t really say much except that they were investigating everything and that he had "the utmost faith in Officer Galluzzo’s judgment" and that the officer was "a veteran with an immaculate record."

"Yeah, I bet," Clarissa said. Then, noticing me taking it all in, she added, "Hey, don’t let the bastards get you down."

"Yeah."

"You know that song?"

"What song?"

"Don’t let the bastards—" She stopped, grinned. "Never mind."



When Ma showed up, the TV was still unmuted. And the story was still developing. And I was still drawing.

"Knock, knock," Ma said, tapping the door frame. Clarissa had asked me if I wanted the door open or closed, and I told her open. It just seemed like a good idea to let some air in. Or maybe let some of the suffocating feeling of the room out.

"Hey," I said, now a bed remote expert, adjusting it so that I was sitting more upright.

"How you feeling?" Ma asked, coming in. She was alone.

"I’m fine. Just doing some drawing," I told her. "Where’s Dad?"

She kissed me on the forehead, then sat on the side of the bed. "He couldn’t make it. Something upset his stomach, and he was throwing up all night."

"Is he okay?"

"Yeah, yeah, he’s fine," she said. She dug in her purse, pulled out an envelope, and set it on the side table. "This came to the house for you."

"Who’s it from?"

"It’s from Chief Killabrew." I nodded but didn’t say anything. I figured it was a get-well-soon card, or something like that. Couldn’t even read it because my mother was way more concerned with more pressing issues. "Have you eaten?"

"Yes, Ma, I ate. Breakfast and lunch," I said with a groan. I knew this was only the beginning of the mother questions. It’s like all moms have a checklist that they read through to make sure their kids are okay.

1. Have you eaten? The most important one.

2. Are you hungry? Not to be confused with #1. And asked even if you say you’ve eaten.

3. Have you pooped? Just to make sure you’re eating the right stuff.

4. Have you bathed? And if you’re my mom,

5. What are you drawing?

I handed her the notebook. She looked at it and instantly started to get emotional, her eyes tearing up. She was blinking them back when a clip of Claudia James, the lady who taped the whole thing, came back on the screen.

My mother watched, still holding the sketch pad.

"You know, some people think the cop was justified. They say he was just doing his job," I said, darting my eyes from the TV to my mother.

She looked at me. Her face looked like it was made of clay. Like it could crack at any second.

"His job?" she said, the tears finally dropping. "You are not a criminal, Rashad. I know that. I know every word you said was true. You didn’t deserve this. You’re not a criminal," she repeated. I could feel the heat rising in the room. In her. I didn’t know how she had been dealing with this at home, or if she and Dad had been getting into it, or what. But in that moment, the water in the kettle had finally started to boil in front of me. My mother was steaming.

"You’re not some animal that they can just hunt. You’re not some punching bag, some thing for them to beat on whenever they feel like it," she said, slapping my sketchbook down. She continued to lose her battle with the tears. "This is not okay," she said. It was the first time I had ever heard her say it—usually it was Spoony. "It’s not. It’s not okay." The TV cut back to the police chief. He said Galluzzo would be placed on paid leave until they got to the bottom of this. My mother clenched her jaw as the chief spoke. Then they flashed Galluzzo’s face on the screen. Ma’s breath caught when she saw his mug on the screen. "That asshole," she growled.

Here’s the thing: My mother almost never curses. I think I may have heard her say "damn," maybe once, but that’s really it. She’s just not that type. So to hear her say "asshole" let me know how angry she really was, that this thing was breaking her down inside too.

"I’m sorry," she said immediately, trying to get back to mom mode. She reached over and grabbed a napkin off my food tray to pat her face dry. "I’m sorry," she said again, forcing a crooked smile, which she was only able to keep up for about five seconds—yikes!—before crumbling into pieces. She was sobbing and panting, short and choppy, dabbing at her pouring eyes and nose with the napkin. It was like everything she had been holding in was now finally coming out.

I leaned forward and inched myself closer to her. Each small movement felt like a knife blade pushing into my side. But I didn’t care, I had to get to her. Then my arms were around her, and now I was crying, my body burning on the inside, while I told her over and over again, "It’s okay. It’s okay. I’m gonna be fine." And as she pulled away to blow her nose once more, working as hard as she could to paint that half-full smile back on her face, I reached for the remote and (please work, please work, please work) changed the channel.



Spoony showed up about an hour later with Berry. My mother and I had calmed down and were watching Family Feud, laughing at some of the stupid answers people were coming up with.

"Name something you might find under your bed."

"A monster!"

"Naw, they don’t hide under there no more. Or in closets," Spoony said, making an entrance as usual. "They hide in plain sight, with uniforms and badges." Spoony. Always an agenda.

"Hi, Mrs. Butler," Berry said, coming over to my mom with her arms out for a hug.

"Hi, sweetheart. Ain’t you supposed to be in school?" Ma kissed Berry on the cheek.

Berry was in law school. Yep, law school. My dad always got on Spoony, asking him why he wasn’t inspired to make something of himself since he dated such a smart girl. Then he’d say, "Well, at least you got enough sense to get a smart girl. I guess I gotta give you credit for that."

"I’ll put in some extra work at the library this weekend. This is far more important," Berry said. Spoony gave me five, then he and Berry switched places so he could hug Ma, and Berry could hug me.

"Wassup, big man?" she said, touching her cheek to mine. Berry was the female version of English. Absolutely gorgeous. And so cool. And smart. Everything wrapped up in one girl. And she was everybody’s first crush. Me, Shannon, and Carlos. We all loved Berry, and English knew it. We used to tease him so bad about her, and he hated it, but put up with it because that’s just what we do. Jokes. But once Spoony started dating her, we cut all the jokes out, because even though Spoony wasn’t anywhere near perfect, he was definitely a dude who got respect. I don’t know why. He just did. It’s not like anyone had ever seen him do anything crazy, but he had this presence about him. A confidence that made it seem like he wasn’t scared of anything or anybody. So the Berry jokes were over, and she instantly fell into big sister zone. "How you holdin’ up?" she asked now.

"Oh, you know me. Living a luxurious life," I said.

"Looks like it," Berry replied, but even though she was smiling, I could see the sadness in her eyes. I could see the sadness in everybody’s eyes. My mother’s, Spoony’s, my friends’, Clarissa’s, even the lady on TV who filmed everything—Claudia’s.

" ’Shad, I want you to see something," Spoony said, easing Berry’s backpack off her shoulder. He unzipped it, pulled out her laptop. "They got Wi-Fi in here?"

"I don’t think so," I said, wanting to laugh at him. I don’t know why, but I just thought that was so funny.

He put the laptop back in the bag.

"Here, just use my phone," Berry said, digging in her back pocket. She tapped the screen a few times, then handed it to Spoony, who handed it to me.

"Look at this."

On the screen was a picture of my school. And on the sidewalk was some writing. I enlarged the image and did a double take. RASHAD IS ABSENT AGAIN TODAY is what it said, spray painted in bright-blue loopy letters.

"What is this?" I asked, staring.

"There’s major buzz about this thing, man. Facebook, Twitter, everywhere. People are pissed off. Kids your age. They’re speaking up, man."

I stared at the picture. The letters, the tiny loop at the stop of the cursive s. So familiar. There was only one person I knew who did that. Carlos.

"English texted me earlier saying that some of the kids at your school have been talking about a protest. He sent me that picture," Berry said. "But that’s not the only one." She reached for the phone and began swiping through photos, showing me picture after picture of RASHAD IS ABSENT AGAIN TODAY, tagged all over the city. I knew the first one was from Carlos, but not all the rest of them, because I didn’t recognize the lettering, plus they were too loose. Amateur. I had no idea who those were from.

"There’s even a hashtag," she said.

#RashadIsAbsentAgainToday.

I couldn’t believe it. I had become a hashtag. I had become searchable. A trending topic. Another number on someone’s chart. But to me, I was still . . . just me.

"A protest?" I thumbed the screen, going from picture to picture. It just seemed weird that there was so much fuss over me.

"Yeah, man," Spoony confirmed.

"A protest?" my mother repeated, her eyebrows knitting together. "I don’t know about this. I don’t want nobody else getting hurt."

A fierce look came over Spoony’s face. "Ma, we have a right to protest. We have a right to be upset."

"I know that, Spoony. You don’t think I know that?" Ma’s voice rose. Spoony had no idea that our mom had just called the cop an asshole. He’d missed that. "You don’t think I’m angry?" She glared at him, burned straight through his hoodie.

"I know you are. Sorry," he said, humbled. "I’m just so tired of this."

"I am too," Ma said, coming back down. "And I know protests can be good. Just like I know that not all cops are bad. I married one."

"I’m not sure Dad’s the best example of a good cop," Spoony said quicker than quick, the words sharp enough to cut.

Ma gave him a look. Not upset. But sad. Like she was sad that her son seemed so angry, so distrusting. And she didn’t even say anything to refute his statement, didn’t even argue with him, which to me was strange.

"Why not?" I asked.

Spoony looked from me to Ma before brushing the whole thing off with, "Nothing. Doesn’t matter."

"Listen, I just don’t want them to find a reason to beat more people. To kill people." Mom refocused the conversation, her eyes back on me. "And since apparently they don’t trust us, I don’t trust them."

"But Ma, all we want is to feel like we can be who we are without being accused of being something else. That’s all," Spoony tried again.

"But do protests even work?" I asked. I mean, I was all for the idea. I really was. But the only time I had ever heard about any protests actually working was Dr. King’s. That’s it. Ain’t never heard of no other ones making a difference.

"Do they work?" Spoony looked at me crazy, a how I could even ask such a question look.

Berry stepped in. "They’re a piece to the puzzle. I mean, there are a lot of pieces, like reforming laws and things like that. But protests are what sends the message to the folks in power that something needs to change. That people are fed up," she explained. "We have a right to voice how we feel, and isn’t that better than just doing nothing?"

Spoony and Berry tag-teamed me with the more political activism mumbo jumbo than I could stand, until at last, thank God, English, Shannon, and Carlos showed up. They all hugged my mom and Berry, and dapped up Spoony.

"Yo, you heard about the protest?" Carlos shot off instantly, picking up right where my brother and Berry had left off. "Hashtag RashadIsAbsentAgainToday."

I looked at him. He looked at me. Friendship ESP.

"So this thing is really gonna happen?" I asked.

"Dude, even Tiffany was talking about it in Mr. Fisher’s class," English said. Mr. Fisher was a history teacher at the school. Kind of a weird guy, but still supercool. White hair. Jacked-up bowl cut. Weird cloth ties. Shirt tucked in tight jeans. But he knew all about history and would celebrate Black History Month in February and March. The only other teacher who was down for stuff like that was Mrs. Tracey, the English teacher. Shannon and Carlos used to always joke about how Mr. Fisher and Mrs. Tracey were probably dating, probably having gross sex after school on Mrs. Tracey’s desk, on top of Shakespeare’s Sonnets or something.

"For real?" I asked.

"Yeah, man. Fish is really supporting it. Like, he’s helping us plan it and everything." English was gassed. "He kept saying how we are part of history. How this is part of history."

"Word? Is he giving out extra credit for it?" I joked, just to try to lighten the mood.

" ’Shad, we serious, man," Carlos said. "Like, for real."

"Told you, ’Shad," Spoony said. "This thing is bubbling. People are sick of it." He looked at Ma, who seemed caught somewhere between mad and worried. "Ma, seriously, what if he was killed?"

"But he wasn’t," she said, straight, the same way my dad had said a few days before when Spoony said the same thing.

"But what about all the others?" Spoony said. "Matter fact, how many of y’all been messed with by the cops?"

"Man, what? I’ve been pulled over so many times," Carlos said.

"Because you speed," I jumped in.

"Yeah, true. But at least three times, they’ve made me get out the car while they tore it apart looking for drugs or guns or whatever they thought I had. Then when they didn’t find nothing, they let me go with a speeding ticket, but left my car a mess. Glove compartment emptied out. Trunk all dug through. Just trashed my ride for no reason."

"Man, I’ve been stopped on the street," English said.

"You have?" Berry sparked up.

"Yeah. More than once, too. Cops wanting me to lift my shirt so they could see if I had weapons on me. Pat-downs and all that."

"Why didn’t you tell me?" Berry asked.

"Because I already know what time it is. I’d seen it before, so it was nothing. Plus I didn’t want you freakin’ out."

"At least yours were only pat-downs. One time they had me facedown on the sidewalk on Overlook Street. Said they got word that there was a robbery and said the description of the person was five-foot-nine, dark skin, with a black T-shirt and black sneakers on," Shannon explained. "That could’ve been anybody."

"That could’ve been any kid I work with at the rec center. Matter fact, that could’ve been me!" Spoony chimed in.

"Exactly," Berry agreed.

And I wished the stories stopped there. I really did. But they didn’t. They went on and on, story after story about not trusting police officers because they always seemed to act like bullies. And even though there were times when they’d been helpful, the bad times . . . were BAD TIMES. And it just seemed like they didn’t . . . I don’t know. Like, they see us. But they don’t really see us.

"Okay," I said.

"Okay what?" Spoony asked.

"Okay. I’m down with the protest." I have to admit, I said I was down but I wasn’t really sure I meant it. I was scared. And it’s not like they needed me to sign on. This wasn’t really about me. This was bigger than me. I knew that now. But I wanted my brother and my friends to know, since the spotlight was on me, that I was in. That I would stand with them.

That is, if I could get out of the hospital.



"Name a word that rhymes with grain."

"Pain."

"Good answer! Good answer!"


DEAR CADET BUTLER,

I HAD PLANNED TO COME VISIT YOU, BUT IT WAS COMMUNICATED TO ME THAT YOU DIDN’T WANT ANY VISITORS. AND IN TOUGH TIMES LIKE THESE, I CAN TOTALLY UNDERSTAND YOU WANTING AS MUCH PRIVACY AS POSSIBLE, AND HAVE ENCOURAGED YOUR FELLOW CADETS TO ALSO RESPECT YOUR WISHES. NONETHELESS, I WANTED YOU TO KNOW YOUR COMRADES AND I HAVE YOU IN OUR THOUGHTS AND WISH YOU A SPEEDY RECOVERY AND RETURN TO THE PROGRAM. AND TO ENCOURAGE YOU IN THIS TIME, I’VE ENCLOSED A CARD WITH OUR CREED.

ALL THE BEST,

CHIEF KILLABREW


I AM AN ARMY JUNIOR ROTC CADET.


I WILL ALWAYS CONDUCT MYSELF TO BRING CREDIT TO MY FAMILY, COUNTRY, SCHOOL, AND THE CORPS OF CADETS.



I AM LOYAL AND PATRIOTIC.



I AM THE FUTURE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.



I DO NOT LIE, CHEAT, OR STEAL AND WILL ALWAYS BE ACCOUNTABLE FOR MY ACTIONS AND DEEDS.



I WILL ALWAYS PRACTICE GOOD CITIZENSHIP AND PATRIOTISM.



I WILL WORK HARD TO IMPROVE MY MIND AND STRENGTHEN MY BODY.



I WILL SEEK THE MANTLE OF LEADERSHIP AND STAND PREPARED TO UPHOLD THE CONSTITUTION AND THE AMERICAN WAY OF LIFE.



MAY GOD GRANT ME THE STRENGTH TO ALWAYS LIVE BY THIS CREED.



If you’re wondering if I had been having nightmares, y’know, about that day, the answer is, no. I hadn’t been. Not until Wednesday. Actually, it started Tuesday night after my friends and family left my room, and I decided to finally read Chief Killabrew’s card. I couldn’t figure out if he had inserted the creed as some kind of reminder to me that if I’m guilty to fess up, and that I was expected to never lie and steal, or what. Maybe he really was trying to encourage me. Maybe he was saying that because I was a cadet, there was no way I could be guilty. I don’t know. I just know that it rubbed me in a weird way, because ROTC, especially to people like my dad, was the first step to the military, and ultimately into law enforcement. I mean, for all I knew, Galluzzo could’ve been in ROTC when he was my age. Was he "the future of America"? Was he upholding "the American way of life"? I guess it depends on who you ask. Maybe. And maybe it was these thoughts rattling around my head that sparked the nightmare.

I was back in Jerry’s, but in the dream, the chips were located in the drink fridge. So I’m standing at the refrigerator staring through the glass, when I hear a voice coming from behind me.

"I know what you’re doing," the voice said.

For some reason, I didn’t turn around. I just looked into the glass to see the reflection of whoever was there. And it was him. Officer Galluzzo, like Goliath standing with his hand already on his weapon, sizing me up.

"I ain’t doing nothing," I said, still facing the glass.

"I know what you’re doing," he repeated, taking a step closer, the sound of his boots thumping on the vinyl floor. I knew I should’ve turned around, but I couldn’t. I was frozen. But I could still see him through the glass, his mirrored image becoming clearer as he got closer and closer. Then I adjusted my eyes to see my own reflection, my own face. But I couldn’t. I mean, my face was there, but . . . it wasn’t. There were no eyes. No nose or mouth. Just blank brown skin.

And that’s when I woke up, my heart pounding, my throat scratchy and dry. The dream seemed to last five minutes, but it had actually been hours, and it was now Wednesday morning. I reached over to the food tray beside my bed for the leftover cranberry juice from dinner the night before. In hospitals, juice comes in the same kind of cups as fruit cocktails and applesauce, the ones where you have to peel back the foil. Damn things are hard to open. My hands, for some weird reason, were weak, wouldn’t work right. Maybe it was the dream. Maybe it was everything that was going on—the reality. Whatever it was, I struggled to pull the aluminum seal back far enough to take a sip of juice. And I needed it. My throat felt like I had eaten my blanket.

I pulled and peeled, until finally the stupid foil snapped away from the plastic and cranberry juice spilled all over the place. Of course.

I snatched the wet sheet back. There was still some juice left, so I decided to get what I could. Right when I took a sip, there was a knock on my door. Now, I know it was probably just a regular knock, but at that moment it sounded like a bang, and I was so jittery that I spilled whatever was left of the juice on myself.

"Shit," I grumbled.

"Watch your mouth." My father was pushing the door open. He poked his head in—a strange thing that everyone does at the hospital for some reason—before entering.

"Good morning," he said, eyeing me as I dabbed juice into my gown, the burgundy blotches on my chest and stomach looking like blood.

"Hey," I said. "What time is it?"

"Just about seven."

"Why are you here so early?"

Dad closed the door behind him and came to the foot of the bed. "Wanted to catch you before I went to work. See how you were doing?"

"Oh," I said, kinda shocked. "I’m okay. How ’bout you? Ma told me you were sick."

"Yeah. Something didn’t agree with my system. But I’m fine." He sat on the edge of the bed, which was different for him. Usually he sat in a chair on the other side of the room—as far away from me as possible.

"Cool." I wasn’t really sure what else to say.

Dad sat there staring at the side table where my phone and the spirometer were.

"Listen, I, uh . . . ," he started. "I want to tell you a story. When I was a cop—" Pause.

Here’s the thing. My father has three different ways to start a parental sermon about a whole bunch of I don’t want to hear it.

1. When I was your age: always about how he was doing way more than I am when he was in high school. Let him tell it, he put the principal in detention.

2. When I was in the army: always came whenever I was tired. It didn’t matter what I was tired from. If I showed any signs of exhaustion, he would hit me with how when he was in the army he wasn’t allowed to be tired, and that if he even yawned they made him drop down and give them a thousand push-ups.

3. When I was a cop: always came whenever he was either defending cops or insulting teenagers.

"When I was a cop," he started. He reached up and loosened his navy-blue tie. Then he hiked his khaki pants up, just enough to show his tan socks, peppered with dark-brown diamonds. Office clothes are as boring as offices. Anyway, I braced myself and prepared to ignore whatever was coming.

"One time," he began, "I got a call that there were a few guys making a bunch of noise in the middle of the night, over on the East Side. You know how it is over there. Nine o’clock, that whole neighborhood shuts down. Now I was used to these quick runs. You drive up, hit your lights and your siren, and if the kids don’t take off running, you just roll down the window and tell them to keep it moving. Never really a big deal." My father was still staring at the spirometer. As if he was talking to it, as if I wasn’t in the room. "So my partner and I answer the call and head on over. When we pull up, there’s a white kid in tight black jeans and a sweater and this black kid going for it. A backpack was upside down on the side of the curb, and these two were just throwing down, scrapping. The black kid was dressed like . . ." He looked at me, finally. "Dressed like your brother. Hair all over his head. A hoodie. Boots. His pants were damn near all the way down. And he was mopping this boy. My partner and I jumped out of the car and approached them, and before we could even give them a chance to stop fighting, I ran over and jacked the black boy up because I knew he was in the wrong. I just knew it. I mean, you should’ve seen how he was pummeling this kid. And he fought me back, telling me that I had it wrong. He slipped right from my grip and ran for the backpack. I pulled my gun. Told him to leave it. He kept yelling, ‘I didn’t do anything! I didn’t do anything! He’s the criminal!’ But now he’s wheezing, like he was having a hard time speaking. Then he grabbed the backpack. By now, my partner’s got the white kid. I tell the black dude to leave the bag and put his hands up. But he doesn’t, and instead opens it. Puts his hand inside. And before he could pull it out, I pulled the trigger."

Holy shit!

"What!" I yelped. I had never heard this story, and I thought I had heard all the stories. I heard all the ones about the people he saved—the woman who had been beaten by her husband; the high-speed chase of a bank robber, who Dad eventually caught after running him off the road, movie-style. I had heard all the stories about how Dad had been shot at. And definitely the one about how he had been shot. I saw the bullet wound in his chest every morning when he got out of the shower, like a tiny crater or a third nipple, a symbol of near death. But I had never, ever, EVER heard this one.

Dad’s Adam’s apple rolled down his throat, then back up. Then he continued. "He was reaching for his inhaler. Turns out, he lived in that neighborhood and was walking home late, when the white kid tried to rob him. He was trying to fight the kid off, and when we showed up, his adrenaline went so high that he couldn’t breathe. Asthma attack. So he had to get to his inhaler, but he was having a hard time telling me that. I just assumed he . . ."

"Wait. Wait . . ." I put my hand up, pushing the words back into my father’s mouth. If there was ever a time that I needed, for once, to control a conversation with him, it was now. I only had one question. "Did you kill him?"

"No." Dad teethed his top lip. "But I paralyzed him from the waist down."

I just sat there, dumbfounded. My dad, my dad, had paralyzed an unarmed kid, a black kid, and I had had no idea. My dad shot a kid. I mean, to me, my father was the model of discipline and courage. Sure, he was stern, and sometimes judgmental, but I always felt like he meant well. But to that kid—and now my head was reeling—to that kid, my dad was no different than Officer Galluzzo. Another trigger-happy cop who was quick to assume and even quicker to shoot.

My father filled in the silence my lack of verbal response had created.

"You know, you were still very young, but Spoony remembers it all. The news. The drama. I’m not proud of it. It’ll never stop haunting me, and I think it messes with your brother still too."

"It probably messes with that boy’s—what’s his name?" I asked, hard.

"Darnell Shackleford," he rattled off. It was clearly a name he couldn’t forget.

"It probably still messes with Darnell and his family too."

"Right." Dad nodded, sadly. "Thing is, I had been in so many other situations where things had gotten crazy. A hand goes in a pocket and out comes a pistol or a blade. And all I could think about was making it home to you, Spoony, and your mother. It’s a hard job, a really hard job, and you could never understand that. You could never know what it’s like to kiss your family good-bye in the morning, knowing you could get a call over your radio that could end your life."

I could hear the struggle in his voice. Like, he really wanted me to understand this, and part of me did. Part of me could even appreciate knowing he thought of us every time he left the house. But still. "Then why did you choose to be a cop?"

"Believe it or not, I wanted to do some good. I really did. But then I realized after a while that most of the time, I was walking into situations expecting to find a certain kind of criminal. I was looking for . . ."

"For me?"

Dad reached over and picked up the spirometer and started inspecting it from every angle. He couldn’t say it, and instead just finished the story. "So I quit the force." He took a deep breath, and I got the feeling that he felt both relieved and ashamed that he had gotten that off his chest. "Look, all I’m trying to say is that not all cops are bad."

"I know that." I hadn’t even noticed—mainly because of my nervousness—that the foil from the juice cup, I had taken it and rolled it between my thumb and pointer fingers, over and over again, until it had become a perfectly round pellet. A tiny, uncrushable thing.

"As a matter of fact, most cops are good. I worked with a lot of great guys, really trying to make a difference. You need to know that they’re not all wolves."

"Dad, I do. But not all kids who look and dress like me are bad either. Most of them aren’t. And even the ones who are don’t deserve to be killed, especially if they don’t have no weapons."

"But a lot of times they do, Rashad."

"But Spoony was telling me yesterday that most times, they don’t."

"Spoony doesn’t know everything." I could tell Dad was getting frustrated. "And neither do you."

"And neither do you." I couldn’t back down from him. Not this time.

Dad stood up, smirked, and nodded. He looked at me as if it was his first time seeing me. As if I had just taken off a mask, even though I was practically wearing one with all the itchy gauze taped to my face. Maybe it was him who had just taken off a mask. He set the spirometer down on the side table and reached for my hand. "Listen, I gotta get going. Your mother said she was coming by later, and that she might be bringing a lawyer in to talk to you. She wants to press charges, so . . . yeah. Be on the lookout for her."

Press charges? My initial thought was that pressing charges was a bad idea. My second thought was that I would have to go to court, which I already wasn’t too keen on. My third thought was just an echo of my first thought, that pressing charges was a bad idea, but there was no point in trying to talk my mother out of it. Even my father knew that.

"I’ll be here." I stated the obvious. We shook hands, awkward and formal.

"Okay."

He headed for the door.

"Dad," I called. He turned around. "If I’m checked out by Friday, I’m thinking about going down to the protest. If I go, you should come."

He didn’t respond. But as he left the room, something in his face dimmed.



Later, after an hour or two more of sleep, and an hour or two of working on my drawing, sketching and shading some, I guess, screwed-up self-portrait, I decided that it was time for another walk. I took Tuesday off from walking, but I knew I couldn’t take another day off, because if I did, Clarissa would chew me out (in the nicest way ever). And the truth is, I wanted to get out of the room, this little closet room, with the beeping things, and the TV. If it weren’t for Clarissa, my hospital room wouldn’t have been much different than a prison cell. Not that I’ve ever been to jail, but based on what I’ve heard in rap songs, and what my dad always said about it (another one of his tactics to get us to do right was to talk about jail), it seemed pretty similar. An uncomfortable bed. Three meals. Loneliness, even when the visitors come.

So I got up, brushed my teeth, washed my face, closed my gown up tight—what’s the deal with the whole ass-out hospital gown thing, anyway?—and left my room. I was going stir-crazy, especially after my father dropping that bomb on me. My dad. I mean, how could he have just . . . I couldn’t even think straight about what he did. The other thing, though, was that I needed to make sure that if I was going to try to go to this protest—I hadn’t really made up my mind yet, but I was definitely thinking about it—I had better practice walking.

Once I got through my door, the fluorescent white light from the ward hit me, stung my eyes. This time, the plan was to just do a loop. Walk all the way around until I was back where I started. I inched down the hall, my legs eventually returning to normal as the stiffness worked itself out. I tried not to be a creep, but it’s really hard not to look in an open door, and most of the patients on the floor had their doors wide open for whatever reason. A woman sat in a chair, asleep, in Room 413. An older man sat on the edge of his bed, oxygen tubes hooked under his nostrils as he struggled to clip his fingernails in Room 415. A young girl playing on a cell phone as an older woman massaged the feet of a person I couldn’t see lying in bed, in Room 417. And on and on I went. Peeking into the rooms of strangers. Peeking into their lives. Hearing people coughing and moaning. Seeing families gathered together, sometimes talking, sometimes not talking. I even saw a few rooms with TVs on, the news playing, everyone peeking into my life as I was peeking into theirs.

Once I finally finished the lap, which may have taken fifteen minutes—pathetic—I returned to my room to find two women in it, one I recognized and one I didn’t. The one I didn’t was looking sort of down, toward the floor. The one I did recognize was looking directly at the one I didn’t. At first, I thought I was loopy, like I was buggin’, so I stepped out to make sure I had walked into the right room. Room 409. R. BUTLER. That’s me.

I stepped back inside hesitantly.

"Uh, hello," I said, then spoke to the woman I recognized. "Mrs. Fitzgerald?"

"Hi, baby," she said grandmotherly.

"What are you doing here?"

"Well, I was coming to bring you something, but when I got to your room this lady was in here. And I asked her if she knew you and she said, not really, so I decided that I would sit in here with her until you got back." Mrs. Fitzgerald’s arms were crossed, and she was glaring at the lady. She was guarding my room. Shoot, maybe she really did volunteer at the fire department.

"Thank you," I said, easing farther into the room. I was happy to see Mrs. Fitzgerald, as I’d had no intention of trying to make that trek back to the gift shop—last time damn near killed me. So it was nice that she popped in to check on me. Then I turned to the other lady because, well, now Mrs. Fitzgerald had made the whole situation even more awkward.

The woman stood and extended her hand. I shook it. "Rashad, I’m so sorry for just barging in like this. I’d been meaning to come see you, but things have just been so busy, and I just, well, I just wanted to stop by and see how you were."

I had no idea what to say, so I just studied her face, trying to place her. But I couldn’t.

"Oh, gosh, you don’t know who I am!" she said suddenly. "My name is Katie Lansing. I’m the lady in the store who accidentally fell over you."

The woman with the navy suit and white sneakers. The one searching for a beer after a long week.

I reached for my bed and sat, suddenly feeling a little dizzy, my mind racing. Why had she decided to come see me? It wasn’t her fault that all this happened—though that klutzy moment seemed to set this whole thing in motion. No, I take that back. It had nothing to do with her. It might’ve happened even if she hadn’t tripped over me. And if not to me, maybe to someone else. Definitely to someone else.

"How . . . did you find me?"

"This is the only decent hospital in town—lucky guess. Plus, your name’s on the door." She smiled slightly.

"Well, what can I do for you?" I still had no idea what to say.

"Yeah, what can he do for you?" Mrs. Fitzgerald totally had my back. I guess she could tell I was uncomfortable.

Ms. Lansing’s face went serious. "Well, I guess I just wanted to say I’m sorry about everything that happened, I mean, that is happening." She blinked hard. I was getting used to the hospital blinks. "I saw everything. The way that officer . . . I just . . ." Now she started to get choked up. "I should go. I just mostly wanted to come by and give you this." She handed me her business card. "If you need me to testify, I absolutely will."

"Thanks," I said, suddenly thinking again about the fact that at some point, once I was out of the hospital and even after the protest, there was going to have to be a trial. I had to go to court. I had never been to court before, but judging from all the TV shows—which is all I really had to go off—it seemed almost as scary as going to jail. But maybe if Ms. Lansing came and told the story as it really happened, they’d believe her, and I could get out of there as quickly as possible. That was my hope. Not likely, but still . . . a hope. And for that reason, I was grateful for her business card, which I set on the side table. And then she was gone.

Now it was just me and Mrs. Fitzgerald. She sat with a plastic bag in her lap, and her right leg crossed over her left, exposing her saggy stockings, which were the same color brown as she was, so it looked like a layer of ankle skin was shedding from her body like a snake.

"So . . ." Mrs. Fitzgerald folded her hands on top of the plastic bag. "A car accident, huh?" Uh-oh, I thought.

"She told you everything?"

"She didn’t have to. I knew who you were when you came into the gift shop. I read the newspaper, front to back, every single day. And I don’t know if you know this or not, but you, my boy, are news." She glanced up at the TV. It was off, but the gesture was merely to acknowledge that it had been on, everywhere.

"Yeah, unfortunately," I huffed. "So why didn’t you say something?"

"Say what? To hold your head up? That everything would be okay? Baby, I could tell by the look on your face that you ain’t need none of that. Sometimes, when people get treated as less than human, the best way to help them feel better is to simply treat them as human. Not as victims. Just you as you. Rashad Butler, before all this."

"Yeah," I said, really grateful for that, though it had never really even crossed my mind that that’s exactly what I needed.

"But there’s still business to tend to."

"What you mean?"

"Well, there are still things that can’t be overlooked. Like this protest I’ve been hearing about. You going?" Mrs. Fitzgerald asked, blunt. Old people never hold back.

"Planning on it. I think. I just gotta wait and see if I get outta here first."

She raised her eyebrows. "Ain’t nobody holding you here. You can walk out whenever you want." I reached over and slid Ms. Lansing’s business card from one corner of the side table to the other. Then I flipped it upside down and moved it back to its original spot.

"Yeah, I guess you’re right. But I don’t know. I just don’t want to get out there and then have something go wrong with my ribs and then I gotta come back here for another week. Better to be safe than sorry." I ain’t never been so careful in my life, but I had also never felt pain like that before either.

"No, it’s not," she said, as if she’d been waiting for me to say that so that she could shut it down. "Not all the time." She glared at me for a moment, and then just as quickly her face relaxed. As if she was scanning me and then found what she was looking for. The chink in my armor.

"You scared."

"It’s not that, it’s—"

"It is that." The old lady cut me off. "Let me tell you something. I’m seventy-four. You know what that means? That means I was around during the civil rights movement. Means I remember all of that. The segregation. The lynchings. Not being able to do what you want to do, or go where you want to go. Or vote. I remember everybody looking at my brother, God bless his soul, like a criminal. An animal. Like he was scum or less than, just because of the way he looked. Skin like coal. Hair like cotton—" She paused and tongued the roof of her mouth, so I offered her water in a Styrofoam cup Clarissa had brought in earlier. I hadn’t touched it. Mrs. Fitzgerald took a sip, and then she was off. "I remember the bus boycott, and the Freedom Riders, and all that. I remember the March on Washington, and I especially remember the ones down in Selma."

"You were there for all that?" I asked in amazement.

She took another sip of water, swallowed, then said, "No. I wasn’t there for any of them." She got a fierce look on her face. "Because I was scared. My brother took the bus trip down to Selma. He begged me to go. Begged me. But I told him it didn’t matter. I told him that he was going to get himself killed, and that that wasn’t bravery, it was stupidity. So he went without me. I watched the clips on the news. I saw him being beaten with everyone else, and realized that my brother, in fact, was the most courageous man I knew, because Selma had nothing to do with him. Well, one could argue that it did, a little bit. But he was doing it for us. All of us."

Mrs. Fitzgerald rocked forward in the chair until she eventually got back to her feet. "Now, I’m not telling you what to do. But I’m telling you that I’ve been watching the news, and I see what’s going on. There’s something that ain’t healed, and it’s not just those ribs of yours. And it’s perfectly okay for you to be afraid, but whether you protest or not, you’ll still be scared. Might as well let your voice be heard, son, because let me tell you something, before you know it you’ll be seventy-four and working in a gift shop, and no one will be listening anymore." She set the plastic bag on the seat. "Brought some snacks. You gotta be sick of this hospital mess by now."

"What is it?" I asked, reaching for the bag.

"Just some chips. I didn’t know what flavor you liked, so I brought them all. Except plain."



I sat back on the bed and thought about what Mrs. Fitzgerald said. Tried to imagine protesting in Selma, the March on Washington. Man. And I was worried about a regular street in my regular town. I thought about the fear, but I also thought about how I would feel if I didn’t go, if I didn’t, as she said, speak up. Maybe nothing would happen. But it was at least worth a try. I turned the TV on, and sat and watched the news, but this time I really watched it. Forced myself to see myself. To relive the pain and confusion and my life changing in the time it took to drop a bag of chips on a sticky floor. I pulled out my sketch pad and started drawing like crazy, but it was hard—stupid damn tears kept wetting the page, they wouldn’t stop, but neither would I. So I kept going, letting the wet spread the lead in weird ways as I shaded and darkened the image. The figure of a man pushing his fist through the other man’s chest. The other figure standing behind, cheering. A few minutes more, and normally it would’ve been complete. A solid piece, maybe even the best I had ever made. But it wasn’t quite there yet. It was close, but still unfinished. I took my pencil, and for the first time broke away from Aaron Douglas’s signature style. Because I couldn’t stop—and I began to draw features on the face of the man having his chest punched through. Starting with the mouth.






My mother did eventually show up with the lawyer she found Wednesday evening, but by the time she got there, I was wiped, maybe from getting up so early talking with Dad, or maybe from actually talking with Dad, or maybe from talking with Mrs. Fitzgerald, or maybe from all of it. I was beat. I tried to rally up the energy because this attorney, a young woman named Maya Whitmeyer, was definitely there to talk business, or law, or whatever, but I just couldn’t. I was so sick of talking about it.

"Son, can you at least just tell her the story, beginning to end?" my mother requested. And of course, I did. Again. I rambled off every detail, just like I had done with my parents, my brother, and my friends. Ms. Whitmeyer took notes in crazy fast writing and asked if the officer ever even read me my rights (the right to remain silent, the right to blah blah blah), which, once I thought about it, I realized he hadn’t. He just skipped to the part about me not having the right to be in that store. She then explained that this should be "open-and-shut," which was lawyer-talk for "easy." But we all knew that it wasn’t that simple. These types of cases were never easy. We had all seen cops get away with far worse, so why would this be any different? I mean, I wasn’t killed. True, I hadn’t even touched the cop; the video footage showed it all. I even had a witness. Still, there was no such thing as "open-and-shut" in cases like these. But I appreciated the lawyer’s confidence. I guess somebody had to be hopeful.

There were so many questions I had for the lawyer, like why, exactly, she felt like this was going to be "open-and-shut." But honestly, I was just too exhausted to even get into it. Before drifting back to sleep, I made sure to give my mother Ms. Lansing’s card. I’d barely glanced at it when she gave it to me, but before I handed it to my mom, I checked it out.

KATIE LANSING

Archivist

Springfield Department of Records and Information Services

Under her name and title was her phone number and e-mail. Seemed like another office job to me. Anything that said "Department of" just meant the job came with a cubicle and benefits. At least that’s what Spoony always said. I handed the card to my mother.

"This is the lady who was in the store. She was here today," I said.

"Here?" my mother asked, nearly leaping out of her seat. The lawyer did the exact same thing.

"Yeah. She came by to see me. She told me to tell you that she would testify."

My mother stared at the card, a huge smile coming across her face, then handed it to the lawyer, who scanned it, then nodded and murmured, "This is good. This is good." And that was good night for me.

Thursday morning I was awakened by Dr. Barnes. He had come by to let me know that my vitals had been stable for forty-eight hours now—Clarissa had been keeping track, and I had been keeping up with my spirometering—and the internal bleeding had finally subsided. I just needed to stay put for a few more hours and then he’d be discharging me. Well, once my parents got there.

Best news ever. I was so ready to go. I took a shower, making sure I didn’t get the bandage on my nose too wet, and I had to wash my torso lightly—even the slightest pressure on my ribs still made me see white. But when I got out of the bathroom, I realized that the only clothes I had were the ones I had on when I got to the hospital. My mother hadn’t brought me anything clean to wear besides fresh underwear—she brought eight pairs! Actual clothes seemed to slip her mind. And if she hadn’t thought about it, I knew my father hadn’t thought about it. And Spoony—forget about it. I reached into the bottom drawer of the side table, which was also a dresser, and pulled out the plastic bag stuffed into it. I picked at the knot in the drawstring—damn, it was tight—until the mouth of the bag finally opened. I pulled my clothes out. First my jeans. I gave them a shake and laid them on one of the chairs. They were filthy and there was a small hole in the left knee, the knee that hit the ground first. Next came my shirt, swatting it out of the tight ball it had been in for the previous five days, the wrinkles deep and seemingly permanent. There was blood up by the collar. I laid it on another chair. The jacket Spoony gave me was in the closet. I opened that door, looked at the sleeve ripped a good three inches in the shoulder seam. I didn’t bother taking it out—no reason to yet. I felt exhausted again, so I sat on the edge of the bed in nothing but clean boxers and looked at my clothes all ragged and torn. My blood on the shirt, concrete dust dingy-ing up the denim. Clothes that I would probably never wear again.

"Hello?" Clarissa’s voice came from behind the door, just before she poked her head in like usual. I didn’t flinch. It honestly didn’t matter. "Whoops, I’m sorry," she said, noticing that I wasn’t dressed.

"It’s cool," I replied, grabbing the gown. "Come in."

Clarissa came in as I snapped the gown shut. "So, I hear you’re leaving us," she said, pushing in the breakfast tray for the last time.

"That’s what Dr. Barnes said."

"Good," Clarissa said. She twisted her hair up in a bun and checked my vitals, I guess just as a final precautionary measure. It would’ve sucked if she heard something weird in my heart, or if my temperature or blood pressure was high, and then I couldn’t go home. Luckily, everything was fine. "So what’s the first thing you’re going to do when you get out of here?"

Funny, I hadn’t really thought about it. I just wanted to go home. "I don’t really know. I guess try to see my boys. Put on some clean clothes," I said, smirking awkwardly. Clarissa glanced to the chairs where I had my dirty T-shirt and jeans spread out like some kind of strange art exhibit.

"Oh my . . ." She put her hand over her mouth. "You want me to put those back in the bag?"

"No," I said. "I got it." I grabbed the shirt and jeans as Clarissa held the bag open for me to dump them in. I didn’t want her to have to touch that stuff. Then I tied the drawstring back in a knot and made the decision right then and there to put the bag in the trash.

"Well, I’m probably not going to see you, so you make sure you take care of yourself."

"Thanks for everything. Really." I sat back on the bed as Clarissa gathered up her equipment.

"But before I go, I wanted to ask . . . did you ever finish that drawing you were working on?"

"Yeah, I finished it yesterday." I slid my sketch pad off the dresser and handed it to her.

"Wow," Clarissa said, gazing at the paper, then glancing back at me. "Rashad, this is incredible. You should be proud." Then she looked a little closer. "Hey . . . this one has a face."

"Yeah."

"Why?"

"Because, well, whoever is looking at this scene, you, me, I don’t know, that lady Claudia James, my friends, my family, Mrs. Fitzgerald—"

"Who?"

"This lady I met," I said. "Anyway, all of us looking at the scene see the person who has the hand put through his chest. The dude with his heart torn out. It’s impossible to ignore him. He has a face. He deserves a face."

Clarissa looked from the drawing, to me, then back to the drawing. "Yeah, he does."



My mom and dad showed up a few hours later. I had texted my mother, reminding her to bring me clean clothes, which she did. I also texted English, Shannon, and Carlos to let them know that I was finally on my way home.

#RashadIsAbsentAgainToday is what they all texted back, along with,

THURSDAY 5:33 p.m. from Los

ABOUT TIME. I ALMOST HAD TO REALLY STEAL TIFF. GIVE HER A SHOULDER TO CRY ON.

THURSDAY 5:34 p.m. from Shannon

DUDE IM SO GLAD UR OUT. SHIT IS CRAZY. GUZZO GOT INTO IT WITH QUINN AT PRACTICE. YOU KNO QUINN?

THURSDAY 5:35 p.m. to Shannon

WHO IS QUINN?

THURSDAY 5:36 p.m. from Shannon

HE’S ON THE TEAM. MEAN JUMPSHOT. U MIGHT NOT KNO HIM. BUT GUZZO HIS BOY, AND THEY WENT AT IT OVER THIS WHOLE THING.

THURSDAY 5:38 p.m. from Los

IM COMIN OVER 2NITE AROUND 8 SOLDIER-BOY. NO CRYING. I KNO HOW MUCH UVE MISSED ME LOL

THURSDAY 5:39 p.m. from English

DUDE WE GOTTA TALK. SCHOOL IS INTENSE. EVERYBDY’S PICKED A SIDE.

THURSDAY 5:41 p.m. to English

I KNO. COME THRU 2NITE. LOS IS COMING. BRING SHAN.

And before I knew it, I was leaving the hospital, wearing a sweat suit, carrying nothing but my notepad. But before we left, I tore out the piece I’d drawn and set it on the food tray for Clarissa. Just to thank her again. I wish I could’ve seen Mrs. Fitzgerald one more time, but the truth is, when it was finally time to go, I was ready to get the hell out of there. I didn’t want to make any extra stops.

Apparently, the lawyer my folks hired asked the media to give us some privacy, which was a good thing because we didn’t have to dash from the hospital to the car through a mob of cameras and microphones. That would have been too much for me. Instead, it was just a few short, peaceful steps from the door to the car. I sat in the backseat as my dad drove through the city. Neither of my parents said much, which was weird. I had this strange feeling like they were uncomfortable around me, or around each other. Something was different, but I couldn’t put my finger on it.

I cracked the window, the fall crisp seeping in, the familiar static of air pushing through a tight space. Through neighborhoods, down the crowded streets, First Street, Second Street, Third Street. Red light. My father put his blinker on, but there was no reason for him to turn. We lived straight ahead. But he made a left at Third and went around the block, coming back out to Main Street at Fifth, the whole time glancing at me weird through the rearview. But I knew what he was doing. He was dodging Fourth Street. He wanted to skip Jerry’s, as if him not driving by it made it no longer exist. As if that’s all it would take to help me forget. Maybe he was doing it for himself, but the way my parents were acting made it clear that this was something they had discussed.

I decided not to bring it up, and instead just sat quietly until we got to the house, where I went straight in my room, to be around all my things. All my faceless sketches taped to the wall above my tiny twin bed. But more importantly, I needed my computer, so that I could scour the Internet to try to catch up on my own life. You know how weird it is to hashtag yourself, to read posts and updates other people—most of whom you don’t even know—make about you? It’s strange. But I did it anyway.

#RashadIsAbsentAgainToday brought up hundreds, maybe a thousand posts. Some were just pictures of all these random places with that tag, just like Spoony showed me. I knew where the first one started. At least I thought I knew. But I had no idea where all the other ones came from. Other links connected to the hashtag were of the news clips. Turns out, I was only watching the local news channel (the hospital could only get five or six channels anyway), but I was being covered in all the newspapers, and even on cable news channels. What the . . . this was insane! There were clips of panel discussions, where preachers and community leaders sat around arguing for me. Defending me. I mean, not just me, but, y’know. And then there were some clips of people defending Galluzzo, everyone saying the same things: He was just doing his job, and He’s a good guy, and We don’t know if that boy was stealing or not. And there were pictures of people holding up pieces of paper with the hashtag written on it. Some of them just said ABSENT AGAIN. There was even one of somebody in a T-shirt, I couldn’t see the face, but written on the front of the shirt was I’M MARCHING, and then the back said ARE YOU?

Besides all this, the wildest part was seeing all the pictures of me snatched from websites and social media pages. Some of them were of me dressed in my usual, everyday wear. Jeans sagged just below the waist, T-shirt, sneakers. Pictures of me throwing up the peace sign, some—the ones Spoony feared—of me flipping off the camera. Carlos and the fellas had been cropped out. These images would have nasty comments under them from people saying stuff like, Looks like he’d rob a store, and If he’d pull his pants up, maybe he would’ve gotten away with the crime! Lol, and Is that a gang sign? Other pictures were of me in my ROTC uniform. Of course, those had loads of comments like, Does this look like a thug? and If he were white with this uniform on, would you still question him?

Everything was a mess. The real world. The cyberworld. All of it. I wanted to turn the computer off, but it was like seeing a car wreck—you keep looking. And I kept digging. Deeper and deeper into the rabbit hole, finding pictures and comments about my family. People saying that my father was a dirty cop and asking why everybody cared so much about me when my dad shot a kid for the same reason years ago. Oh, so just because Officer Galluzzo’s white, everybody’s mad now? What about Officer Butler! This kid is the son of a bad cop. Karma is a bitch! I have to admit, that one stung the most. Rage started to surge through me, but instead of shutting my computer down, I decided to try to look up Darnell Shackleford. I hated knowing what I now knew about my father. That he had done this to someone, and even if he didn’t mean to, he ruined an innocent kid’s life forever. All because of fear and assumption. And even though my father lived with the guilt, I now had to live with it too. So as I clicked on the first image link to pop up, as I stared at Darnell’s high school senior picture, the arms of his wheelchair peeking into the camera too, I made it clear to myself that this protest, this whole thing, was also for him.

English, Shannon, and Carlos got to my house around eight. My mother ordered Mother’s Pizza for us and had Spoony pick it up on his way in. We sat at the kitchen table waiting as patiently as possible for Ma to pick her slices before we dove in, tearing the cheesy triangles from the pie as if we had never eaten pizza before.

"So what’s been going on?" I said, picking off the pepperonis and eating them like chips. Seemed like a stupid question to ask, but up until that point we’d all been sitting there listening to Carlos ramble on about how he thought Silky Wilkes really liked him. "I know y’all didn’t come over here just to let this dude talk about Latrice."

"Naw, it was for the free pizza," Shannon said with a smirk.

"Oh really?" from my mother, who was using a fork and knife to cut hers.

"Kiddin’, Mrs. Butler."

"Man, seriously, we just wanted to catch you up," English cut in. "People have been on edge. Even me. A few days ago I got into it with that dude Quinn I was telling you about. He was kickin’ all that ‘Paul was doing his job’ crap, while you were laid up in the hospital with your ribs busted. I mean, it’s wild. But then today, that same dude got into it with Guzzo at practice. Then afterward the dude, Quinn, came up to me to say that we should just call this one play we have, it’s like an isolation play for me"—I had no idea what he was talking about—"he agreed that we should just call it ‘Rashad.’ "

"What?"

"Yep. Coach Carney named it ‘Fist,’ but I called it ‘Rashad’ in practice, and I’m gonna call it that in the game, too. Quinn was with me."

"Are you sure that’s a good idea?" I asked, feeling really weird. Plus, I didn’t want English to get benched for something like renaming a play after me.

"Dude, at this point, I don’t care. It ain’t like people ain’t thinkin’ ’bout it anyway. It’s on everybody’s mind."

"Plus, ‘Rashad Is Absent Again Today’ caught on like wildfire," Shannon said.

I looked at Carlos, who was trying to shove a whole slice in his mouth.

"Wha?" he grunted.

"I know it was you," I said. "And for the record, you should’ve did it in a way where the paint dripped. Almost like vampire blood style."

Carlos chewed and chewed, then finally swallowed. "I don’t know what you’re talkin’ ’bout." He smiled. "But that’s a good idea!"

Spoony shook his head. But not in the my little brother and his annoying friends way. In the proud way. "So this protest," he said, getting down to business.

"It’s tomorrow at five thirty," English said. "We’re starting at Jerry’s and working our way down to the police station."

"Y’all are gonna miss practice?" I asked, concerned.

"Who cares?" Shannon said, nodding to me. My boys. My brothers. "You should know, ’Shad, that Tiffany has been working with Jill and they’ve been planning the crap out of this thing. Her and Jill have been the main students organizing it from our school."

"But it ain’t just our school," English explained, quick. "It’s all kinds of people. Other schools. Folks in the neighborhood. Different businesses."

"I called Pastor Johnson, and he said he’d round up some folks too," Ma added. I was cool with the pastor coming, but my mother being on board, that really got me. My father, well, I wasn’t sure. He wasn’t out there with us, was he? Nope. He was in his room, hiding.

Spoony leaned forward. "Fellas, can I make a suggestion? When we get to the station, we should have a die-in."

"A what?" My mother went bug-eyed, probably at the word "die."

"A die-in. It’s basically when you lie on the ground as a form of protest. Sorta like how the sit-ins were back in the day. But when you lie down, they can’t push you over, they can’t do anything to you, really, because you are already on the ground."

"They could kick you!" My mother wasn’t a fan of this idea.

"But they won’t. Too many cameras." Spoony looked at Ma. "I promise. It’ll be fine." She nodded, nervously.

"But once we lie down, then what?" I asked, because the way I saw it, putting my body back on the sidewalk wasn’t my idea of a protest. It was my idea of a nightmare.

"Then we make the most powerful statement we can make." Spoony dug in his bag and pulled out a stack of papers. "We read every name on this list. Out loud."


I learned that the night before a protest, it’s impossible to sleep. I didn’t toss or turn, I just lay flat on my back staring into the darkness, my mind darting from thought to thought, from friend to friend, from brother to mother, from hashtag to hashtag. And in the morning, I wasn’t groggy or grumpy, or even sleepy. I was sick. And it was a good thing that I hadn’t planned on going back to school until Monday, because I spent what seemed like hours in the bathroom shitting nerves. And pizza.

Once I finally made it out to the kitchen, my mother—who had taken the day off—was sitting at the table in her robe, sipping coffee, staring at the television.

"Good morning," she said. Then, noticing my hand rubbing soft circles on my stomach, her voice went into instant worry. "What’s the matter?"

"Not feeling too well," I said, easing into a seat.

"Should I take you back to the hospital?"

"No, no, I don’t think it’s anything like that." I hoped.

Ma got up, pressed the back of her hand against my forehead, then to my neck. "No fever. That’s a good sign," she said, relief in her voice. She grabbed the kettle off the stove, lifted it to make sure there was water in it, then set it back down. She turned on the flame. "I’ll make you some mint tea," she added, reaching up into the pantry to grab a tea bag and a mug. "I bet it’s just your nerves. You keep ’em buried in your belly. Got that from your daddy."

"What you mean?"

"I mean, whenever you get nervous, your stomach acts crazy," she said. "Your father has the same problem. He can eat anything. Seems like his gut is made of steel when it comes to food. But when he gets nervous, he’s a mess."

I never knew this about my father, maybe because he never seemed like he was too nervous about anything. I mean, besides that story he told me about him shooting Darnell Shackleford, I had never even known my father to show any sign of fear. But this new information got me thinking. He was sick earlier in the week. Said something didn’t agree with his stomach, so maybe the thing that didn’t agree with his gut was . . . what happened to me. Police brutality. Maybe. Or maybe it was just seeing me in pain. Or maybe even knowing somewhere deep in the pit of his belly that I was innocent.

Ma set the tea in front of me, then sat back down. We both sipped from our mugs and watched the news. Everybody was talking about the upcoming protest, which was scheduled to start at five thirty. Clips of military vehicles rolling past as reporters talked about "hopes for a peaceful demonstration." Police officers already dressed in military gear. I had seen it before. I had seen it all the other times there were protests in other parts of the country, other cities, other neighborhoods. I’d heard Spoony talk about it, because he and Berry had taken buses to other cities to march. He had been tear gassed before and told me it was like someone rubbing an onion on your eyeballs, and then pouring hot gasoline down your throat. The words "riot" and "looters" were being thrown into the conversation too, my picture next to Galluzzo’s flashing across the screen, the footage of the arrest, looping. Experts arguing, This isn’t the first time this has happened. But until we have an honest conversation about prejudice and abuse of power in law enforcement, it won’t stop, and, Unless you’ve been a police officer, there’s no way to know how difficult a job it is. Law enforcement isn’t perfect, but there are more good examples than bad.

"Is Dad coming?" I asked, holding the cup up. The steam snaked up into my nose.

Ma pursed her lips. "Baby, I don’t even know. I woke up in the middle of the night, realizing he wasn’t in the bed. When I got up to check on him, I found him standing at your door, peeking in at you, like he used to do when you were a baby. I didn’t disturb him. I just crept back to the room. I was surprised he even made it up this morning for work, let alone a march."

"I was awake. I wish he would’ve knocked," I said, also surprised—that he had been watching me in the first place. I wondered . . . maybe he was reliving what it was like to leave me every day to be a cop. What it was like to love something enough to do anything to come back to it.

"Yeah, well, you know your father."

"Did he say something about it this morning?"

"No. He just went to work early, didn’t say much of anything. Kissed me as usual and told me to be safe, but that was it. So we’ll see."

The smell of mint suddenly turned my stomach. Or maybe it was what my mother had just said, which made me imagine that Dad had given her "the talk." You know, Never fight back. Never talk back. Keep your hands up. Keep your mouth shut. Just do what they ask you to do, and you’ll be fine. Dad’s guide to surviving the police. Dad’s guide to surviving a protest. Dad’s guide to surviving . . . Dad. Whatever it was, my stomach started hiccuping again, jumping around like I was possessed by something nasty. I set my mug down on the table and ran back to the bathroom.

Once I made sure it was safe to leave the toilet, I needed to go lie down. Who knew that lying down for a week could make you so tired? But before climbing back in the bed, I got on my knees and reached underneath it, trying to grab a shoe box that I had pushed way too far back. Argghkk—that hurt. Once I’d finally swatted it close enough to grip, I pulled the raggedy box from under the bed frame and set it on the mattress. I popped the top off and started digging through the hundreds of pieces of torn newspaper. My Family Circus tear-outs. I don’t really know why I suddenly had to see them now, except maybe they were a distraction I could really, really count on. I mean, I could’ve drawn something myself, but whatever was inside was what was going to come out, so it would’ve probably been another picture of someone getting slammed, or something like that. So The Family Circus was better. Easier.

It had been a few years since I had looked at any of them, and leafing through them transported me back to sitting across from my father, licking marshmallows off the top of hot chocolate, reading them for the first time. Man, that seemed like a lifetime ago. Even thinking about it was like thinking about someone else’s life, not my own. I mean, the innocence of it all seemed almost silly now. To think that life could always be as good as breakfast with your family and sharing the newspaper with your dad, looking up to him, imagining that one day you’d read the whole entire paper and drink coffee too. To think that my life could be as perfect as Billy’s.

I flipped through a dozen tear-outs, then another, and then I froze. Between my fingers was the one of Billy talking to his mother. It read, First thing you need to know is, I didn’t do it. I put it to the side and pulled out another. This one showed the little boy standing at his father’s bed. His father is just waking up, and the little boy says, Put your glasses on, Daddy, so I can remember who you are. And another that simply said, Mommy, when am I gonna reach my full potential? They were still boring. Still not funny at all. But I kept reading them, a simple and safe white family framed in a circle, like looking into their lives through a telescope or binoculars from the other side of the street. From a different place. From a place . . . not always so sweet. I laid back in the bed and continued pulling them from the box, one by one, until finally I drifted off to sleep.

But it was only a short nap because before I knew it, Spoony was knocking on my door.

"Li’l bruh, you gotta get up, man. It’s almost time to go," he said, cracking the door, peeking in before pushing it wide open, just as everyone had done at the hospital. He was dressed in all black. Black hoodie. Black jeans. Black boots. A megaphone in his hand. Damn. "Get dressed," he said, followed by, "What in the world were you doing?"

I looked around at all the scraps of comic strips littering the bed. "Nothing, man," I said, sitting up. "I’ll be ready in a sec."

I put on all black too—just seemed like the right thing to do—and met Ma, Spoony, and Berry in the kitchen. Berry was also dressed in black. My mother, she had on her usual mom jeans, sweater, a light jacket, and sneakers. Oh, and a fanny pack. She was ready. They all were. But I needed to go to the bathroom, one more time.

"Get it out, baby," my mother said, explaining to Spoony that I had been sick all day, like that was any of his business. But that’s moms for you. Funny thing is, I didn’t even have to go. There was something else I wanted to do.

In the bathroom, I stood at the sink, staring at my reflection. I brought my hands to my face and slowly peeled the tape and bandage back, revealing my nose. Still swollen. There was a knot on the top—a lump that changed the way my whole face looked. I turned my head sideways—bump looked even worse. I hated that damn bump, but I didn’t want people to see me all bandaged up like that. Not because I was embarrassed. Well, I was, a little. But more importantly, I wanted people to see me. See what happened. I wanted people to know that no matter the outcome, no matter if this day ended up as just another protest and Officer Galluzzo got off scot-free, that I would never be the same person. I looked different and I would be different, forever.

When I returned to the kitchen, my mother instantly began to tear up. My brother nodded, balled his right hand into a fist, and extended it toward me. "You ready?"

I bumped my fist to his. "Yeah, I’m ready."



I couldn’t believe it. We couldn’t even get all the way to Fourth Street because of all the people. So Ma parked on Eighth and we walked down to join the crowd, English, Carlos, and Shannon all texting me telling me that they were in front of Jerry’s. We wove in and out of the herd—so many people, mostly strangers, but everyone there for the same reason. It was unreal. Lots of people held up signs. Police officers lined the streets, creating a kind of wall, containing us. There were these huge trucks, like road tanks, blocking us at either end, locking us into a seven- or eight-block rectangle. The newspeople were there as well, men in gray suits and blue ties, holding microphones in front of some kids I recognized from school.

"Stay close," Spoony said as we pushed down Fourth Street. He held my mother’s hand, and I kept a hand on her shoulder as he and Berry led the way. I was glad they had done this before, because my heart felt like it had grown feet and was trying to run away from my body. As we moved through, eventually people started to recognize me, and the crowd began to split open, making a clearer path for us.

"I see Carlos!" I said to Spoony, raising my voice to be heard.

"There’s English over there!" Berry shouted back, pointing to the right. And there they were, my friends—my brothers—standing in front of Jerry’s, holding big white poster boards, RASHAD IS ABSENT AGAIN TODAY written in bold black marker. They went crazy when they saw us—Shannon waving us forward like we were the royal family or something, making sure to let people know to let us through. When we finally got to them, they each hugged me, then my mom. I looked out at the crowd. People, young, old, black, white, Asian, Latino, more people than I could count. It was straight out of an Aaron Douglas painting, except there were faces. Faces everywhere. My teachers, Mr. Fisher and Mrs. Tracey. Tiffany, who gave me a look, both happy and sad. Latrice Wilkes. Oh! My comrades from ROTC, and because it was Friday, uniform day, they were dressed head to toe. Some of the basketball players. Football players. Neighborhood people. Pastor Johnson, in a suit, but this time, instead of a Bible, he held a sign up that said, RASHAD IS ABSENT AGAIN TODAY, BUT GOD IS NEVER ABSENT. Katie Lansing was there. I didn’t see Mrs. Fitzgerald, but I wouldn’t have wanted her out there, even though I was sure she was tough enough to handle it. Even Clarissa was there, which was amazing. I waved to her, but the crowd seemed to think that I was waving to everybody, and so they all cheered for me, which was overwhelming. I knew it wasn’t just about me. I did. But it felt good to feel like I had support. That people could see me.

The chant was a simple one. I’m not sure exactly who came up with it. It just sort of started in the middle and rippled through the crowd. "Spring-field P-D, we don’t want brutality! Spring-field P-D, we don’t want brutality!" We chanted it, no, we screamed it, at the top of our lungs, over and over again as we started marching toward Police Plaza 1. Spoony shouted it into the megaphone, and he wasn’t the only one. Everyone was on the same page, chanting the same thing as we moved down Main Street. Me, Spoony, Carlos, English, Berry, and Shannon were in the front of the crowd, and all of a sudden, our arms locked and we were leading the way like—the image came to me of raging water crashing against the walls of a police dam. Marching. But it wasn’t like I was used to. It wasn’t military style. Your left! Your left! Your left-right-left! It wasn’t like that at all. It was an uncounted step, yet we were all in sync. We were on a mission.

And as we approached the police station, standing on the steps outside Police Plaza 1 was my father. Spoony slapped my arm and nodded toward Dad, totally surprised. My brother raised an eyebrow at me. I raised one at him. "Whatttttt?" Then we both grinned at the exact same time. Ma, of course, was crying. Instantly. She had been doing a pretty good job at keeping it together, but seeing my father standing there waiting for us broke her. He jogged down the steps and met us with hugs. He didn’t say anything. Just hugged and locked arms with us as we turned around and faced the crowd, still chanting, "Spring-field P-D, we don’t want brutality!"

Spoony gave Berry the megaphone and she started chanting through the speaker, even louder than he had. He dug in his backpack and pulled out the papers, the same papers he’d showed us the night before at the kitchen table, as Berry slowly got down on the ground. She lay flat on her back, the megaphone still to her mouth, still chanting. Spoony followed suit. He nodded to me. My father looked on, uneasy, as me, Carlos, Shannon, and English all laid down. My mother leaned in to him and whispered something. The confusion slowly slid from his face, and he took his wife’s hand and helped her lower herself to the ground. Then he joined us as well. And the people in front of the crowd followed suit, realizing what was happening. The die-in was beginning, and like dominoes, the crowd began to drop, each person, young and old, lying flat on the dirty pavement, the police officers all around us in riot gear, their hands on their weapons, afraid and perplexed.

"Ladies and gentlemen!" Berry shouted through the megaphone. "Ladies and gentlemen!" The chanting died down. "We are here, not for Rashad, but for all of us! We are here to say, enough is enough! We are here to say, no more! No more!" Spoony gave the first paper to her. And into the megaphone, she began.

"This is a roll call! Sean Bell!" Then she followed with "Absent again today! Oscar Grant! Absent again today! Rekia Boyd! Absent again today! Ramarley Graham!" She paused, and at that point the rest of us knew exactly what to do.

"Absent again today!"

"Aiyana Jones!"

"Absent again today!"

"Freddie Gray!"

"Absent again today!"

"Michael Brown!"

"Absent again today!"

"Tamir Rice!"

"Absent again today!"

"Eric Garner!"

"Absent again today!"

"Tarika Wilson!"

"Absent again today!"

And Spoony kept feeding Berry the papers, one after another, as she continued to read down the list of unarmed black people killed by the police. And I laid there on the hard concrete, for the second time in a week, tears flowing down my cheeks, thinking about each one of those names.




I locked eyes with a kid I didn’t know, but felt like I did. A white guy, who I could tell was thinking about those names too.


Those people. I hadn’t known any of them, and he probably hadn’t either. But I was connected to those names now, because of what happened to me. We all were. I was sad. I was angry. But I was also proud. Proud that I was there. Proud that I could represent Darnell Shackleford. Proud that I could represent Mrs. Fitzgerald—her brother who was beaten in Selma.

For all the people who came before us, fighting this fight, I was here, screaming at the top of my lungs.

Rashad Butler.
Present.



